data-explorer/kusto/management/data-export/index.md, before:

---
title: Data export
description: Learn how to export data from Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: orspodek
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 11/05/2023
---
# Data export

Data export involves executing a Kusto query and saving its results. This process can be carried out either on the client side or the service side.

## Client-side export

Client-side export gives you control over saving query results either to the local file system or pushing them to a preferred storage location. This flexibility is facilitated through the use of [Kusto client libraries](../../api/client-libraries.md). You can [create an app to run queries](../../api/get-started/app-basic-query.md), read the desired data, and implement an export process tailored to your requirements.

Alternatively, you can use a client tool like the Azure Data Explorer web UI to export data from your Kusto cluster. For more information, see [Share queries](../../../web-share-queries.md).

## Service-side export (pull)

Use the [ingest from query](../../management/data-ingestion/ingest-from-query.md) commands to pull query results into a table in the same or different cluster. See the [performance tips](../../management/data-ingestion/ingest-from-query.md#performance-tips) before using these commands.

## Service-side export (push)

For scalable data export, the service offers various `.export` management commands to push query results to [cloud storage](export-data-to-storage.md), an [external table](export-data-to-an-external-table.md), or an [SQL table](export-data-to-sql.md). This approach enhances scalability by avoiding the bottleneck of streaming through a single network connection.

[Continuous data export](continuous-data-export.md) is supported for export to external tables.

> [!NOTE]
> The `.export` management commands are limited by the available data export capacity of your cluster. Run the [.show capacity command](../../management/diagnostics.md#show-capacity) to view the total, consumed, and remaining data export capacity.

## Related content

* [Export to cloud storage](export-data-to-storage.md)
* [Export to an external table](export-data-to-an-external-table.md)
* [Export to a SQL table](export-data-to-sql.md)
* [Continuous data export](continuous-data-export.md)

Commit message:

Link to Related content for data export examples

data-explorer/kusto/management/data-export/index.md, after:

---
title: Data export
description: Learn how to export data from Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: orspodek
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 11/05/2023
---
# Data export

Data export involves executing a Kusto query and saving its results. This process can be carried out either on the client side or the service side.

For examples on data export, see [Related content](#related-content).

## Client-side export

Client-side export gives you control over saving query results either to the local file system or pushing them to a preferred storage location. This flexibility is facilitated through the use of [Kusto client libraries](../../api/client-libraries.md). You can [create an app to run queries](../../api/get-started/app-basic-query.md), read the desired data, and implement an export process tailored to your requirements.

Alternatively, you can use a client tool like the Azure Data Explorer web UI to export data from your Kusto cluster. For more information, see [Share queries](../../../web-share-queries.md).

## Service-side export (pull)

Use the [ingest from query](../../management/data-ingestion/ingest-from-query.md) commands to pull query results into a table in the same or different cluster. See the [performance tips](../../management/data-ingestion/ingest-from-query.md#performance-tips) before using these commands.

## Service-side export (push)

For scalable data export, the service offers various `.export` management commands to push query results to [cloud storage](export-data-to-storage.md), an [external table](export-data-to-an-external-table.md), or an [SQL table](export-data-to-sql.md). This approach enhances scalability by avoiding the bottleneck of streaming through a single network connection.

[Continuous data export](continuous-data-export.md) is supported for export to external tables.

> [!NOTE]
> The `.export` management commands are limited by the available data export capacity of your cluster. Run the [.show capacity command](../../management/diagnostics.md#show-capacity) to view the total, consumed, and remaining data export capacity.

## Related content

* [Export to cloud storage](export-data-to-storage.md)
* [Export to an external table](export-data-to-an-external-table.md)
* [Export to a SQL table](export-data-to-sql.md)
* [Continuous data export](continuous-data-export.md)
