data-explorer/kusto/functions-library/kmeans-fl.md, before:

---
title:  kmeans_fl()
description: This article describes the kmeans_fl() user-defined function in Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: adieldar
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/13/2023
zone_pivot_group_filename: data-explorer/zone-pivot-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: kql-flavors-all
---
# kmeans_fl()

::: zone pivot="azuredataexplorer, fabric"

The function `kmeans_fl()` is a [UDF (user-defined function)](../query/functions/user-defined-functions.md) that clusterizes a dataset using the [k-means algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K-means_clustering).

[!INCLUDE [python-zone-pivot-fabric](../../includes/python-zone-pivot-fabric.md)]

## Syntax

`T | invoke kmeans_fl(`*k*`,` *features_cols*`,` *cluster_col*`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
|*k*|int|&check;|The number of clusters.|
|*features_cols*|dynamic|&check;|An array containing the names of the features columns to use for clustering.|
|*cluster_col*|string|&check;|The name of the column to store the output cluster ID for each record.|

## Function definition

You can define the function by either embedding its code as a query-defined function, or creating it as a stored function in your database, as follows:

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

Define the function using the following [let statement](../query/let-statement.md). No permissions are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> A [let statement](../query/let-statement.md) can't run on its own. It must be followed by a [tabular expression statement](../query/tabular-expression-statements.md). To run a working example of `kmeans_fl()`, see [Examples](#examples).

~~~kusto
let kmeans_fl=(tbl:(*), k:int, features:dynamic, cluster_col:string)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('k', k, 'features', features, 'cluster_col', cluster_col);
    let code = ```if 1:
        
        from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
        
        k = kargs["k"]
        features = kargs["features"]
        cluster_col = kargs["cluster_col"]
        
        km = KMeans(n_clusters=k)
        df1 = df[features]
        km.fit(df1)
        result = df
        result[cluster_col] = km.labels_
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
// Write your query to use the function here.
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

Define the stored function once using the following [`.create function`](../management/create-function.md). [Database User permissions](../management/access-control/role-based-access-control.md) are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must run this code to create the function before you can use the function as shown in the [Examples](#examples).

~~~kusto
.create function with (folder = "Packages\\ML", docstring = "K-Means clustering")
kmeans_fl(tbl:(*), k:int, features:dynamic, cluster_col:string)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('k', k, 'features', features, 'cluster_col', cluster_col);
    let code = ```if 1:
        
        from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
        
        k = kargs["k"]
        features = kargs["features"]
        cluster_col = kargs["cluster_col"]
        
        km = KMeans(n_clusters=k)
        df1 = df[features]
        km.fit(df1)
        result = df
        result[cluster_col] = km.labels_
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
}
~~~

---

## Examples

The following examples use the [invoke operator](../query/invoke-operator.md) to run the function.

### Clusterize room occupancy from sensors measurements

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

~~~kusto
let kmeans_fl=(tbl:(*), k:int, features:dynamic, cluster_col:string)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('k', k, 'features', features, 'cluster_col', cluster_col);
    let code = ```if 1:
        
        from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
        
        k = kargs["k"]
        features = kargs["features"]
        cluster_col = kargs["cluster_col"]
        
        km = KMeans(n_clusters=k)
        df1 = df[features]
        km.fit(df1)
        result = df
        result[cluster_col] = km.labels_
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
//
// Clusterize room occupancy from sensors measurements.
//
// Occupancy Detection is an open dataset from UCI Repository at https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Occupancy+Detection+
// It contains experimental data for binary classification of room occupancy from Temperature, Humidity, Light, and CO2.
//
OccupancyDetection
| extend cluster_id=int(null)
| invoke kmeans_fl(5, pack_array("Temperature", "Humidity", "Light", "CO2", "HumidityRatio"), "cluster_id")
| sample 10
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

```kusto
//
// Clusterize room occupancy from sensors measurements.
//
// Occupancy Detection is an open dataset from UCI Repository at https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Occupancy+Detection+
// It contains experimental data for binary classification of room occupancy from Temperature, Humidity, Light, and CO2.
//
OccupancyDetection
| extend cluster_id=int(null)
| invoke kmeans_fl(5, pack_array("Temperature", "Humidity", "Light", "CO2", "HumidityRatio"), "cluster_id")
| sample 10
```

---

**Output**

| Timestamp | Temperature | Humidity | Light | CO2 | HumidityRatio | Occupancy |Test | cluster_id |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 2015-02-02 14:38:00.0000000 | 23.64 | 27.1 | 473 | 908.8 | 0.00489763 | TRUE | TRUE | 1 |
| 2015-02-03 01:47:00.0000000 | 20.575 | 22.125 | 0 | 446 | 0.00330878 | FALSE | TRUE | 0 |
| 2015-02-10 08:47:00.0000000 | 20.42666667 | 33.56 | 405 | 494.3333333 | 0.004986493 | TRUE | FALSE | 4 |
| 2015-02-10 09:15:00.0000000 | 20.85666667 | 35.09666667 | 433 | 665.3333333 | 0.005358055 | TRUE | FALSE | 4 |
| 2015-02-11 16:13:00.0000000 | 21.89 | 30.0225 | 429 | 771.75 | 0.004879358 | TRUE | TRUE | 4 |
| 2015-02-13 14:06:00.0000000 | 23.4175 | 26.5225 | 608 | 599.75 | 0.004728116 | TRUE | TRUE | 4 |
| 2015-02-13 23:09:00.0000000 | 20.13333333 | 32.2 | 0 | 502.6666667 | 0.004696278 | FALSE | TRUE | 0 |
| 2015-02-15 18:30:00.0000000 | 20.5 | 32.79 | 0 | 666.5 | 0.004893459 | FALSE | TRUE | 3 |
| 2015-02-17 13:43:00.0000000 | 21.7 | 33.9 | 454 | 1167 | 0.005450924 | TRUE | TRUE | 1 |
| 2015-02-17 18:17:00.0000000 | 22.025 | 34.2225 | 0 | 1538.25 | 0.005614538 | FALSE | TRUE | 2 |

### Extract the centroids and size of each cluster

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

```kusto
let kmeans_fl=(tbl:(*), k:int, features:dynamic, cluster_col:string)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('k', k, 'features', features, 'cluster_col', cluster_col);
    let code = ```if 1:
        
        from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
        
        k = kargs["k"]
        features = kargs["features"]
        cluster_col = kargs["cluster_col"]
        
        km = KMeans(n_clusters=k)
        df1 = df[features]
        km.fit(df1)
        result = df
        result[cluster_col] = km.labels_
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
OccupancyDetection
| extend cluster_id=int(null)
| invoke kmeans_fl(5, pack_array("Temperature", "Humidity", "Light", "CO2", "HumidityRatio"), "cluster_id")
| summarize Temperature=avg(Temperature), Humidity=avg(Humidity), Light=avg(Light), CO2=avg(CO2), HumidityRatio=avg(HumidityRatio), num=count() by cluster_id
| order by num
```

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

```kusto
OccupancyDetection
| extend cluster_id=int(null)
| invoke kmeans_fl(5, pack_array("Temperature", "Humidity", "Light", "CO2", "HumidityRatio"), "cluster_id")
| summarize Temperature=avg(Temperature), Humidity=avg(Humidity), Light=avg(Light), CO2=avg(CO2), HumidityRatio=avg(HumidityRatio), num=count() by cluster_id
| order by num
```

---

**Output**

| cluster_id | Temperature | Humidity | Light | CO2 | HumidityRatio | num |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 0 | 20.3507186863278 | 27.1521395395781 | 10.1995789883291 | 486.804272186974 | 0.00400132147662714 | 11124 |
| 4 | 20.9247315268427 | 28.7971160082823 | 20.7311894656536 | 748.965771574469 | 0.00440412568299058 | 3063 |
| 1 | 22.0284137970445 | 27.8953334469889 | 481.872136037748 | 1020.70779349773 | 0.00456692559904535 | 2514 |
| 3 | 22.0344177115763 | 25.1151053429273 | 462.358969056434 | 656.310608696507 | 0.00411782436443015 | 2176 |
| 2 | 21.4091216082295 | 31.8363099552939 | 174.614816229606 | 1482.05062388414 | 0.00504573022875817 | 1683 |

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="azuremonitor"

This feature isn't supported.

::: zone-end

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/functions-library/kmeans-fl.md, after:

---
title:  kmeans_fl()
description: This article describes the kmeans_fl() user-defined function in Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: adieldar
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/13/2023
zone_pivot_group_filename: data-explorer/zone-pivot-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: kql-flavors-all
---
# kmeans_fl()

::: zone pivot="azuredataexplorer, fabric"

The function `kmeans_fl()` is a [UDF (user-defined function)](../query/functions/user-defined-functions.md) that clusterizes a dataset using the [k-means algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K-means_clustering).

[!INCLUDE [python-zone-pivot-fabric](../../includes/python-zone-pivot-fabric.md)]

## Syntax

`T | invoke kmeans_fl(`*k*`,` *features_cols*`,` *cluster_col*`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
|*k*|int| :heavy_check_mark:|The number of clusters.|
|*features_cols*|dynamic| :heavy_check_mark:|An array containing the names of the features columns to use for clustering.|
|*cluster_col*|string| :heavy_check_mark:|The name of the column to store the output cluster ID for each record.|

## Function definition

You can define the function by either embedding its code as a query-defined function, or creating it as a stored function in your database, as follows:

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

Define the function using the following [let statement](../query/let-statement.md). No permissions are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> A [let statement](../query/let-statement.md) can't run on its own. It must be followed by a [tabular expression statement](../query/tabular-expression-statements.md). To run a working example of `kmeans_fl()`, see [Examples](#examples).

~~~kusto
let kmeans_fl=(tbl:(*), k:int, features:dynamic, cluster_col:string)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('k', k, 'features', features, 'cluster_col', cluster_col);
    let code = ```if 1:
        
        from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
        
        k = kargs["k"]
        features = kargs["features"]
        cluster_col = kargs["cluster_col"]
        
        km = KMeans(n_clusters=k)
        df1 = df[features]
        km.fit(df1)
        result = df
        result[cluster_col] = km.labels_
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
// Write your query to use the function here.
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

Define the stored function once using the following [`.create function`](../management/create-function.md). [Database User permissions](../management/access-control/role-based-access-control.md) are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must run this code to create the function before you can use the function as shown in the [Examples](#examples).

~~~kusto
.create function with (folder = "Packages\\ML", docstring = "K-Means clustering")
kmeans_fl(tbl:(*), k:int, features:dynamic, cluster_col:string)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('k', k, 'features', features, 'cluster_col', cluster_col);
    let code = ```if 1:
        
        from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
        
        k = kargs["k"]
        features = kargs["features"]
        cluster_col = kargs["cluster_col"]
        
        km = KMeans(n_clusters=k)
        df1 = df[features]
        km.fit(df1)
        result = df
        result[cluster_col] = km.labels_
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
}
~~~

---

## Examples

The following examples use the [invoke operator](../query/invoke-operator.md) to run the function.

### Clusterize room occupancy from sensors measurements

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

~~~kusto
let kmeans_fl=(tbl:(*), k:int, features:dynamic, cluster_col:string)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('k', k, 'features', features, 'cluster_col', cluster_col);
    let code = ```if 1:
        
        from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
        
        k = kargs["k"]
        features = kargs["features"]
        cluster_col = kargs["cluster_col"]
        
        km = KMeans(n_clusters=k)
        df1 = df[features]
        km.fit(df1)
        result = df
        result[cluster_col] = km.labels_
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
//
// Clusterize room occupancy from sensors measurements.
//
// Occupancy Detection is an open dataset from UCI Repository at https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Occupancy+Detection+
// It contains experimental data for binary classification of room occupancy from Temperature, Humidity, Light, and CO2.
//
OccupancyDetection
| extend cluster_id=int(null)
| invoke kmeans_fl(5, pack_array("Temperature", "Humidity", "Light", "CO2", "HumidityRatio"), "cluster_id")
| sample 10
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

```kusto
//
// Clusterize room occupancy from sensors measurements.
//
// Occupancy Detection is an open dataset from UCI Repository at https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Occupancy+Detection+
// It contains experimental data for binary classification of room occupancy from Temperature, Humidity, Light, and CO2.
//
OccupancyDetection
| extend cluster_id=int(null)
| invoke kmeans_fl(5, pack_array("Temperature", "Humidity", "Light", "CO2", "HumidityRatio"), "cluster_id")
| sample 10
```

---

**Output**

| Timestamp | Temperature | Humidity | Light | CO2 | HumidityRatio | Occupancy |Test | cluster_id |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 2015-02-02 14:38:00.0000000 | 23.64 | 27.1 | 473 | 908.8 | 0.00489763 | TRUE | TRUE | 1 |
| 2015-02-03 01:47:00.0000000 | 20.575 | 22.125 | 0 | 446 | 0.00330878 | FALSE | TRUE | 0 |
| 2015-02-10 08:47:00.0000000 | 20.42666667 | 33.56 | 405 | 494.3333333 | 0.004986493 | TRUE | FALSE | 4 |
| 2015-02-10 09:15:00.0000000 | 20.85666667 | 35.09666667 | 433 | 665.3333333 | 0.005358055 | TRUE | FALSE | 4 |
| 2015-02-11 16:13:00.0000000 | 21.89 | 30.0225 | 429 | 771.75 | 0.004879358 | TRUE | TRUE | 4 |
| 2015-02-13 14:06:00.0000000 | 23.4175 | 26.5225 | 608 | 599.75 | 0.004728116 | TRUE | TRUE | 4 |
| 2015-02-13 23:09:00.0000000 | 20.13333333 | 32.2 | 0 | 502.6666667 | 0.004696278 | FALSE | TRUE | 0 |
| 2015-02-15 18:30:00.0000000 | 20.5 | 32.79 | 0 | 666.5 | 0.004893459 | FALSE | TRUE | 3 |
| 2015-02-17 13:43:00.0000000 | 21.7 | 33.9 | 454 | 1167 | 0.005450924 | TRUE | TRUE | 1 |
| 2015-02-17 18:17:00.0000000 | 22.025 | 34.2225 | 0 | 1538.25 | 0.005614538 | FALSE | TRUE | 2 |

### Extract the centroids and size of each cluster

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

```kusto
let kmeans_fl=(tbl:(*), k:int, features:dynamic, cluster_col:string)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('k', k, 'features', features, 'cluster_col', cluster_col);
    let code = ```if 1:
        
        from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
        
        k = kargs["k"]
        features = kargs["features"]
        cluster_col = kargs["cluster_col"]
        
        km = KMeans(n_clusters=k)
        df1 = df[features]
        km.fit(df1)
        result = df
        result[cluster_col] = km.labels_
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
OccupancyDetection
| extend cluster_id=int(null)
| invoke kmeans_fl(5, pack_array("Temperature", "Humidity", "Light", "CO2", "HumidityRatio"), "cluster_id")
| summarize Temperature=avg(Temperature), Humidity=avg(Humidity), Light=avg(Light), CO2=avg(CO2), HumidityRatio=avg(HumidityRatio), num=count() by cluster_id
| order by num
```

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

```kusto
OccupancyDetection
| extend cluster_id=int(null)
| invoke kmeans_fl(5, pack_array("Temperature", "Humidity", "Light", "CO2", "HumidityRatio"), "cluster_id")
| summarize Temperature=avg(Temperature), Humidity=avg(Humidity), Light=avg(Light), CO2=avg(CO2), HumidityRatio=avg(HumidityRatio), num=count() by cluster_id
| order by num
```

---

**Output**

| cluster_id | Temperature | Humidity | Light | CO2 | HumidityRatio | num |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 0 | 20.3507186863278 | 27.1521395395781 | 10.1995789883291 | 486.804272186974 | 0.00400132147662714 | 11124 |
| 4 | 20.9247315268427 | 28.7971160082823 | 20.7311894656536 | 748.965771574469 | 0.00440412568299058 | 3063 |
| 1 | 22.0284137970445 | 27.8953334469889 | 481.872136037748 | 1020.70779349773 | 0.00456692559904535 | 2514 |
| 3 | 22.0344177115763 | 25.1151053429273 | 462.358969056434 | 656.310608696507 | 0.00411782436443015 | 2176 |
| 2 | 21.4091216082295 | 31.8363099552939 | 174.614816229606 | 1482.05062388414 | 0.00504573022875817 | 1683 |

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="azuremonitor"

This feature isn't supported.

::: zone-end
