data-explorer/kusto/functions-library/log-reduce-full-fl.md, before:

---
title:  log_reduce_full_fl()
description: This article describes the log_reduce_full_fl() user-defined function in Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: adieldar
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 05/07/2023
zone_pivot_group_filename: data-explorer/zone-pivot-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: kql-flavors-all
---
# log_reduce_full_fl()

::: zone pivot="azuredataexplorer, fabric"

The function `log_reduce_full_fl()` finds common patterns in semi structured textual columns, such as log lines, and clusters the lines according to the extracted patterns. The function's algorithm and most of the parameters are identical to [log_reduce_fl()](log-reduce-fl.md). However, `log_reduce_fl()` outputs a patterns summary table, whereas this function outputs a full table containing the pattern and parameters per each line.

[!INCLUDE [python-zone-pivot-fabric](../../includes/python-zone-pivot-fabric.md)]

## Syntax

*T* `|` `invoke` `log_reduce_full_fl(`*reduce_col* [`,` *pattern_col* [`,` *parameters_col* [`,` *use_logram* [`,` *use_drain* [`,` *custom_regexes* [`,` *custom_regexes_policy* [`,` *delimiters* [`,` *similarity_th* [`,` *tree_depth* [`,` *trigram_th* [`,` *bigram_th* ]]]]]]]]]]]`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

The following parameters description is a summary. For more information, see [More about the algorithm](log-reduce-fl.md#more-about-the-algorithm) section.

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *reduce_col* | string | &check; | The name of the string column the function is applied to. |
| *pattern_col* | string | &check; | The name of the string column to populate the pattern. |
| *parameters_col* | string | &check; | The name of the string column to populate the pattern's parameters. |
| *use_logram* | bool | | Enable or disable the Logram algorithm. Default value is `true`. |
| *use_drain* | bool | | Enable or disable the Drain algorithm. Default value is `true`. |
| *custom_regexes* | dynamic | | A dynamic array containing pairs of regular expression and replacement symbols to be searched in each input row, and replaced with their respective matching symbol. Default value is `dynamic([])`. The default regex table replaces numbers, IPs and GUIDs. |
| *custom_regexes_policy* | string | | Either 'prepend', 'append' or 'replace'. Controls whether custom_regexes are prepend/append/replace the default ones. Default value is 'prepend'. |
| *delimiters* | dynamic | | A dynamic array containing delimiter strings. Default value is `dynamic([" "])`, defining space as the only single character delimiter. |
| *similarity_th* | real | | Similarity threshold, used by the Drain algorithm. Increasing *similarity_th* results in more refined clusters. Default value is 0.5. If Drain is disabled, then this parameter has no effect.
| *tree_depth* | int | | Increasing *tree_depth* improves the runtime of the Drain algorithm, but might reduce its accuracy. Default value is 4. If Drain is disabled, then this parameter has no effect. |
| *trigram_th* | int | | Decreasing *trigram_th* increases the chances of Logram to replace tokens with wildcards. Default value is 10. If Logram is disabled, then this parameter has no effect. |
| *bigram_th* | int | | Decreasing *bigram_th* increases the chances of Logram to replace tokens with wildcards. Default value is 15. If Logram is disabled, then this parameter has no effect. |

## Function definition

You can define the function by either embedding its code as a query-defined function, or creating it as a stored function in your database, as follows:

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

Define the function using the following [let statement](../query/let-statement.md). No permissions are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> A [let statement](../query/let-statement.md) can't run on its own. It must be followed by a [tabular expression statement](../query/tabular-expression-statements.md). To run a working example of `log_reduce_fl()`, see [Example](#example).

~~~kusto
let log_reduce_full_fl=(tbl:(*), reduce_col:string, pattern_col:string, parameters_col:string,
                   use_logram:bool=True, use_drain:bool=True, custom_regexes: dynamic = dynamic([]), custom_regexes_policy: string = 'prepend',
                   delimiters:dynamic = dynamic(' '), similarity_th:double=0.5, tree_depth:int = 4, trigram_th:int=10, bigram_th:int=15)
{
    let default_regex_table = pack_array('(/|)([0-9]+\\.){3}[0-9]+(:[0-9]+|)(:|)', '<IP>', 
                                         '([0-9a-fA-F]{8}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{12})', '<GUID>', 
                                         '(?<=[^A-Za-z0-9])(\\-?\\+?\\d+)(?=[^A-Za-z0-9])|[0-9]+$', '<NUM>');
    let kwargs = bag_pack('reduced_column', reduce_col, 'delimiters', delimiters,'output_column', pattern_col, 'parameters_column', parameters_col, 
                          'trigram_th', trigram_th, 'bigram_th', bigram_th, 'default_regexes', default_regex_table, 
                          'custom_regexes', custom_regexes, 'custom_regexes_policy', custom_regexes_policy, 'tree_depth', tree_depth, 'similarity_th', similarity_th, 
                          'use_drain', use_drain, 'use_logram', use_logram, 'save_regex_tuples_in_output', True, 'regex_tuples_column', 'RegexesColumn', 
                          'output_type', 'full');
    let code = ```if 1:
        from log_cluster import log_reduce
        result = log_reduce.log_reduce(df, kargs)
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
// Write your query to use the function here.
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

Define the stored function once using the following [`.create function`](../management/create-function.md). [Database User permissions](../management/access-control/role-based-access-control.md) are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must run this code to create the function before you can use the function as shown in the [Example](#example).

~~~kusto
.create-or-alter function with (folder = 'Packages\\Text', docstring = 'Find common patterns in textual logs, output a full table')
log_reduce_full_fl(tbl:(*), reduce_col:string, pattern_col:string, parameters_col:string,
                   use_logram:bool=True, use_drain:bool=True, custom_regexes: dynamic = dynamic([]), custom_regexes_policy: string = 'prepend',
                   delimiters:dynamic = dynamic(' '), similarity_th:double=0.5, tree_depth:int = 4, trigram_th:int=10, bigram_th:int=15)
{
    let default_regex_table = pack_array('(/|)([0-9]+\\.){3}[0-9]+(:[0-9]+|)(:|)', '<IP>', 
                                         '([0-9a-fA-F]{8}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{12})', '<GUID>', 
                                         '(?<=[^A-Za-z0-9])(\\-?\\+?\\d+)(?=[^A-Za-z0-9])|[0-9]+$', '<NUM>');
    let kwargs = bag_pack('reduced_column', reduce_col, 'delimiters', delimiters,'output_column', pattern_col, 'parameters_column', parameters_col, 
                          'trigram_th', trigram_th, 'bigram_th', bigram_th, 'default_regexes', default_regex_table, 
                          'custom_regexes', custom_regexes, 'custom_regexes_policy', custom_regexes_policy, 'tree_depth', tree_depth, 'similarity_th', similarity_th, 
                          'use_drain', use_drain, 'use_logram', use_logram, 'save_regex_tuples_in_output', True, 'regex_tuples_column', 'RegexesColumn', 
                          'output_type', 'full');
    let code = ```if 1:
        from log_cluster import log_reduce
        result = log_reduce.log_reduce(df, kargs)
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
}
~~~

---

## Example

The following example uses the [invoke operator](../query/invoke-operator.md) to run the function.

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

~~~kusto
let log_reduce_full_fl=(tbl:(*), reduce_col:string, pattern_col:string, parameters_col:string,
                   use_logram:bool=True, use_drain:bool=True, custom_regexes: dynamic = dynamic([]), custom_regexes_policy: string = 'prepend',
                   delimiters:dynamic = dynamic(' '), similarity_th:double=0.5, tree_depth:int = 4, trigram_th:int=10, bigram_th:int=15)
{
    let default_regex_table = pack_array('(/|)([0-9]+\\.){3}[0-9]+(:[0-9]+|)(:|)', '<IP>', 
                                         '([0-9a-fA-F]{8}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{12})', '<GUID>', 
                                         '(?<=[^A-Za-z0-9])(\\-?\\+?\\d+)(?=[^A-Za-z0-9])|[0-9]+$', '<NUM>');
    let kwargs = bag_pack('reduced_column', reduce_col, 'delimiters', delimiters,'output_column', pattern_col, 'parameters_column', parameters_col, 
                          'trigram_th', trigram_th, 'bigram_th', bigram_th, 'default_regexes', default_regex_table, 
                          'custom_regexes', custom_regexes, 'custom_regexes_policy', custom_regexes_policy, 'tree_depth', tree_depth, 'similarity_th', similarity_th, 
                          'use_drain', use_drain, 'use_logram', use_logram, 'save_regex_tuples_in_output', True, 'regex_tuples_column', 'RegexesColumn', 
                          'output_type', 'full');
    let code = ```if 1:
        from log_cluster import log_reduce
        result = log_reduce.log_reduce(df, kargs)
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
//
// Finding common patterns in HDFS logs, a commonly used benchmark for log parsing
//
HDFS_log
| take 100000
| extend Patterns="", Parameters=""
| invoke log_reduce_full_fl(reduce_col="data", pattern_col="Patterns", parameters_col="Parameters")
| take 10
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

```kusto
//
// Finding common patterns in HDFS logs, a commonly used benchmark for log parsing
//
HDFS_log
| take 100000
| extend Patterns="", Parameters=""
| invoke log_reduce_full_fl(reduce_col="data", pattern_col="Patterns", parameters_col="Parameters")
| take 10
```

---

**Output**

| data | Patterns | Parameters |
|--|--|--|
| 081110 | 215858 | 15485 INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_5080254298708411681 of size 67108864 from /10.251.43.21  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_\<NUM> of size \<NUM> from \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15485"", ""parameter_2"": ""5080254298708411681"", ""parameter_3"": ""67108864"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.43.21""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15494 INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_-7037346755429293022 src: /10.251.43.21:45933 dest: /10.251.43.21:50010  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_\<NUM> src: \<IP> dest: \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15494"", ""parameter_2"": ""-7037346755429293022"", ""parameter_3"": ""/10.251.43.21:45933"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.43.21:50010""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15496 INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: PacketResponder 2 for block blk_-7746692545918257727 terminating  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: PacketResponder \<NUM> for block blk_\<NUM> terminating  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15496"", ""parameter_2"": ""2"", ""parameter_3"": ""-7746692545918257727""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15496 INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_-7746692545918257727 of size 67108864 from /10.251.107.227  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_\<NUM> of size \<NUM> from \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15496"", ""parameter_2"": ""-7746692545918257727"", ""parameter_3"": ""67108864"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.107.227""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15511 INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_-8578644687709935034 src: /10.251.107.227:39600 dest: /10.251.107.227:50010  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_\<NUM> src: \<IP> dest: \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15511"", ""parameter_2"": ""-8578644687709935034"", ""parameter_3"": ""/10.251.107.227:39600"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.107.227:50010""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15514 INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_722881101738646364 src: /10.251.75.79:58213 dest: /10.251.75.79:50010  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_\<NUM> src: \<IP> dest: \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15514"", ""parameter_2"": ""722881101738646364"", ""parameter_3"": ""/10.251.75.79:58213"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.75.79:50010""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15517 INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: PacketResponder 2 for block blk_-7110736255599716271 terminating  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: PacketResponder \<NUM> for block blk_\<NUM> terminating  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15517"", ""parameter_2"": ""2"", ""parameter_3"": ""-7110736255599716271""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15517 INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_-7110736255599716271 of size 67108864 from /10.251.42.246  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_\<NUM> of size \<NUM> from \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15517"", ""parameter_2"": ""-7110736255599716271"", ""parameter_3"": ""67108864"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.42.246""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15533 INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_7257432994295824826 src: /10.251.26.8:41803 dest: /10.251.26.8:50010  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_\<NUM> src: \<IP> dest: \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15533"", ""parameter_2"": ""7257432994295824826"", ""parameter_3"": ""/10.251.26.8:41803"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.26.8:50010""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15533 INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_-7771332301119265281 src: /10.251.43.210:34258 dest: /10.251.43.210:50010  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_\<NUM> src: \<IP> dest: \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15533"", ""parameter_2"": ""-7771332301119265281"", ""parameter_3"": ""/10.251.43.210:34258"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.43.210:50010""}" |

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="azuremonitor"

This feature isn't supported.

::: zone-end

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/functions-library/log-reduce-full-fl.md, after:

---
title:  log_reduce_full_fl()
description: This article describes the log_reduce_full_fl() user-defined function in Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: adieldar
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 05/07/2023
zone_pivot_group_filename: data-explorer/zone-pivot-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: kql-flavors-all
---
# log_reduce_full_fl()

::: zone pivot="azuredataexplorer, fabric"

The function `log_reduce_full_fl()` finds common patterns in semi structured textual columns, such as log lines, and clusters the lines according to the extracted patterns. The function's algorithm and most of the parameters are identical to [log_reduce_fl()](log-reduce-fl.md). However, `log_reduce_fl()` outputs a patterns summary table, whereas this function outputs a full table containing the pattern and parameters per each line.

[!INCLUDE [python-zone-pivot-fabric](../../includes/python-zone-pivot-fabric.md)]

## Syntax

*T* `|` `invoke` `log_reduce_full_fl(`*reduce_col* [`,` *pattern_col* [`,` *parameters_col* [`,` *use_logram* [`,` *use_drain* [`,` *custom_regexes* [`,` *custom_regexes_policy* [`,` *delimiters* [`,` *similarity_th* [`,` *tree_depth* [`,` *trigram_th* [`,` *bigram_th* ]]]]]]]]]]]`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

The following parameters description is a summary. For more information, see [More about the algorithm](log-reduce-fl.md#more-about-the-algorithm) section.

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *reduce_col* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The name of the string column the function is applied to. |
| *pattern_col* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The name of the string column to populate the pattern. |
| *parameters_col* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The name of the string column to populate the pattern's parameters. |
| *use_logram* | bool | | Enable or disable the Logram algorithm. Default value is `true`. |
| *use_drain* | bool | | Enable or disable the Drain algorithm. Default value is `true`. |
| *custom_regexes* | dynamic | | A dynamic array containing pairs of regular expression and replacement symbols to be searched in each input row, and replaced with their respective matching symbol. Default value is `dynamic([])`. The default regex table replaces numbers, IPs and GUIDs. |
| *custom_regexes_policy* | string | | Either 'prepend', 'append' or 'replace'. Controls whether custom_regexes are prepend/append/replace the default ones. Default value is 'prepend'. |
| *delimiters* | dynamic | | A dynamic array containing delimiter strings. Default value is `dynamic([" "])`, defining space as the only single character delimiter. |
| *similarity_th* | real | | Similarity threshold, used by the Drain algorithm. Increasing *similarity_th* results in more refined clusters. Default value is 0.5. If Drain is disabled, then this parameter has no effect.
| *tree_depth* | int | | Increasing *tree_depth* improves the runtime of the Drain algorithm, but might reduce its accuracy. Default value is 4. If Drain is disabled, then this parameter has no effect. |
| *trigram_th* | int | | Decreasing *trigram_th* increases the chances of Logram to replace tokens with wildcards. Default value is 10. If Logram is disabled, then this parameter has no effect. |
| *bigram_th* | int | | Decreasing *bigram_th* increases the chances of Logram to replace tokens with wildcards. Default value is 15. If Logram is disabled, then this parameter has no effect. |

## Function definition

You can define the function by either embedding its code as a query-defined function, or creating it as a stored function in your database, as follows:

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

Define the function using the following [let statement](../query/let-statement.md). No permissions are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> A [let statement](../query/let-statement.md) can't run on its own. It must be followed by a [tabular expression statement](../query/tabular-expression-statements.md). To run a working example of `log_reduce_fl()`, see [Example](#example).

~~~kusto
let log_reduce_full_fl=(tbl:(*), reduce_col:string, pattern_col:string, parameters_col:string,
                   use_logram:bool=True, use_drain:bool=True, custom_regexes: dynamic = dynamic([]), custom_regexes_policy: string = 'prepend',
                   delimiters:dynamic = dynamic(' '), similarity_th:double=0.5, tree_depth:int = 4, trigram_th:int=10, bigram_th:int=15)
{
    let default_regex_table = pack_array('(/|)([0-9]+\\.){3}[0-9]+(:[0-9]+|)(:|)', '<IP>', 
                                         '([0-9a-fA-F]{8}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{12})', '<GUID>', 
                                         '(?<=[^A-Za-z0-9])(\\-?\\+?\\d+)(?=[^A-Za-z0-9])|[0-9]+$', '<NUM>');
    let kwargs = bag_pack('reduced_column', reduce_col, 'delimiters', delimiters,'output_column', pattern_col, 'parameters_column', parameters_col, 
                          'trigram_th', trigram_th, 'bigram_th', bigram_th, 'default_regexes', default_regex_table, 
                          'custom_regexes', custom_regexes, 'custom_regexes_policy', custom_regexes_policy, 'tree_depth', tree_depth, 'similarity_th', similarity_th, 
                          'use_drain', use_drain, 'use_logram', use_logram, 'save_regex_tuples_in_output', True, 'regex_tuples_column', 'RegexesColumn', 
                          'output_type', 'full');
    let code = ```if 1:
        from log_cluster import log_reduce
        result = log_reduce.log_reduce(df, kargs)
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
// Write your query to use the function here.
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

Define the stored function once using the following [`.create function`](../management/create-function.md). [Database User permissions](../management/access-control/role-based-access-control.md) are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must run this code to create the function before you can use the function as shown in the [Example](#example).

~~~kusto
.create-or-alter function with (folder = 'Packages\\Text', docstring = 'Find common patterns in textual logs, output a full table')
log_reduce_full_fl(tbl:(*), reduce_col:string, pattern_col:string, parameters_col:string,
                   use_logram:bool=True, use_drain:bool=True, custom_regexes: dynamic = dynamic([]), custom_regexes_policy: string = 'prepend',
                   delimiters:dynamic = dynamic(' '), similarity_th:double=0.5, tree_depth:int = 4, trigram_th:int=10, bigram_th:int=15)
{
    let default_regex_table = pack_array('(/|)([0-9]+\\.){3}[0-9]+(:[0-9]+|)(:|)', '<IP>', 
                                         '([0-9a-fA-F]{8}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{12})', '<GUID>', 
                                         '(?<=[^A-Za-z0-9])(\\-?\\+?\\d+)(?=[^A-Za-z0-9])|[0-9]+$', '<NUM>');
    let kwargs = bag_pack('reduced_column', reduce_col, 'delimiters', delimiters,'output_column', pattern_col, 'parameters_column', parameters_col, 
                          'trigram_th', trigram_th, 'bigram_th', bigram_th, 'default_regexes', default_regex_table, 
                          'custom_regexes', custom_regexes, 'custom_regexes_policy', custom_regexes_policy, 'tree_depth', tree_depth, 'similarity_th', similarity_th, 
                          'use_drain', use_drain, 'use_logram', use_logram, 'save_regex_tuples_in_output', True, 'regex_tuples_column', 'RegexesColumn', 
                          'output_type', 'full');
    let code = ```if 1:
        from log_cluster import log_reduce
        result = log_reduce.log_reduce(df, kargs)
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
}
~~~

---

## Example

The following example uses the [invoke operator](../query/invoke-operator.md) to run the function.

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

~~~kusto
let log_reduce_full_fl=(tbl:(*), reduce_col:string, pattern_col:string, parameters_col:string,
                   use_logram:bool=True, use_drain:bool=True, custom_regexes: dynamic = dynamic([]), custom_regexes_policy: string = 'prepend',
                   delimiters:dynamic = dynamic(' '), similarity_th:double=0.5, tree_depth:int = 4, trigram_th:int=10, bigram_th:int=15)
{
    let default_regex_table = pack_array('(/|)([0-9]+\\.){3}[0-9]+(:[0-9]+|)(:|)', '<IP>', 
                                         '([0-9a-fA-F]{8}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{4}-[0-9a-fA-F]{12})', '<GUID>', 
                                         '(?<=[^A-Za-z0-9])(\\-?\\+?\\d+)(?=[^A-Za-z0-9])|[0-9]+$', '<NUM>');
    let kwargs = bag_pack('reduced_column', reduce_col, 'delimiters', delimiters,'output_column', pattern_col, 'parameters_column', parameters_col, 
                          'trigram_th', trigram_th, 'bigram_th', bigram_th, 'default_regexes', default_regex_table, 
                          'custom_regexes', custom_regexes, 'custom_regexes_policy', custom_regexes_policy, 'tree_depth', tree_depth, 'similarity_th', similarity_th, 
                          'use_drain', use_drain, 'use_logram', use_logram, 'save_regex_tuples_in_output', True, 'regex_tuples_column', 'RegexesColumn', 
                          'output_type', 'full');
    let code = ```if 1:
        from log_cluster import log_reduce
        result = log_reduce.log_reduce(df, kargs)
    ```;
    tbl
    | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
//
// Finding common patterns in HDFS logs, a commonly used benchmark for log parsing
//
HDFS_log
| take 100000
| extend Patterns="", Parameters=""
| invoke log_reduce_full_fl(reduce_col="data", pattern_col="Patterns", parameters_col="Parameters")
| take 10
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

```kusto
//
// Finding common patterns in HDFS logs, a commonly used benchmark for log parsing
//
HDFS_log
| take 100000
| extend Patterns="", Parameters=""
| invoke log_reduce_full_fl(reduce_col="data", pattern_col="Patterns", parameters_col="Parameters")
| take 10
```

---

**Output**

| data | Patterns | Parameters |
|--|--|--|
| 081110 | 215858 | 15485 INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_5080254298708411681 of size 67108864 from /10.251.43.21  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_\<NUM> of size \<NUM> from \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15485"", ""parameter_2"": ""5080254298708411681"", ""parameter_3"": ""67108864"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.43.21""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15494 INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_-7037346755429293022 src: /10.251.43.21:45933 dest: /10.251.43.21:50010  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_\<NUM> src: \<IP> dest: \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15494"", ""parameter_2"": ""-7037346755429293022"", ""parameter_3"": ""/10.251.43.21:45933"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.43.21:50010""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15496 INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: PacketResponder 2 for block blk_-7746692545918257727 terminating  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: PacketResponder \<NUM> for block blk_\<NUM> terminating  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15496"", ""parameter_2"": ""2"", ""parameter_3"": ""-7746692545918257727""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15496 INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_-7746692545918257727 of size 67108864 from /10.251.107.227  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_\<NUM> of size \<NUM> from \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15496"", ""parameter_2"": ""-7746692545918257727"", ""parameter_3"": ""67108864"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.107.227""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15511 INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_-8578644687709935034 src: /10.251.107.227:39600 dest: /10.251.107.227:50010  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_\<NUM> src: \<IP> dest: \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15511"", ""parameter_2"": ""-8578644687709935034"", ""parameter_3"": ""/10.251.107.227:39600"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.107.227:50010""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15514 INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_722881101738646364 src: /10.251.75.79:58213 dest: /10.251.75.79:50010  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_\<NUM> src: \<IP> dest: \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15514"", ""parameter_2"": ""722881101738646364"", ""parameter_3"": ""/10.251.75.79:58213"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.75.79:50010""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15517 INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: PacketResponder 2 for block blk_-7110736255599716271 terminating  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: PacketResponder \<NUM> for block blk_\<NUM> terminating  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15517"", ""parameter_2"": ""2"", ""parameter_3"": ""-7110736255599716271""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15517 INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_-7110736255599716271 of size 67108864 from /10.251.42.246  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$PacketResponder: Received block blk_\<NUM> of size \<NUM> from \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15517"", ""parameter_2"": ""-7110736255599716271"", ""parameter_3"": ""67108864"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.42.246""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15533 INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_7257432994295824826 src: /10.251.26.8:41803 dest: /10.251.26.8:50010  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_\<NUM> src: \<IP> dest: \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15533"", ""parameter_2"": ""7257432994295824826"", ""parameter_3"": ""/10.251.26.8:41803"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.26.8:50010""}" |
| 081110 | 215858 | 15533 INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_-7771332301119265281 src: /10.251.43.210:34258 dest: /10.251.43.210:50010  081110 \<NUM> \<NUM> INFO dfs.DataNode$DataXceiver: Receiving block blk_\<NUM> src: \<IP> dest: \<IP>  "{""parameter_0"": ""215858"", ""parameter_1"": ""15533"", ""parameter_2"": ""-7771332301119265281"", ""parameter_3"": ""/10.251.43.210:34258"", ""parameter_4"": ""/10.251.43.210:50010""}" |

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="azuremonitor"

This feature isn't supported.

::: zone-end
