data-explorer/kusto/functions-library/series-fit-poly-fl.md, before:

---
title:  series_fit_poly_fl()
description: This article describes the series_fit_poly_fl() user-defined function in Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: adieldar
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/16/2023
zone_pivot_group_filename: data-explorer/zone-pivot-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: kql-flavors-all
---
# series_fit_poly_fl()

::: zone pivot="azuredataexplorer, fabric"

The function `series_fit_poly_fl()` is a [user-defined function (UDF)](../query/functions/user-defined-functions.md) that applies a polynomial regression on a series. This function takes a table containing multiple series (dynamic numerical arrays) and generates the best fit high-order polynomial for each series using [polynomial regression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polynomial_regression). This function returns both the polynomial coefficients and the interpolated polynomial over the range of the series.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * Use the native function [series_fit_poly()](../query/series-fit-poly-function.md) instead of the function described in this document. The native function provides the same functionality and is better for performance and scalability. This document is provided for reference purposes only.
> * For linear regression of an evenly spaced series, as created by [make-series operator](../query/make-series-operator.md), use the native function [series_fit_line()](../query/series-fit-line-function.md).

[!INCLUDE [python-zone-pivot-fabric](../../includes/python-zone-pivot-fabric.md)]

## Syntax

`T | invoke series_fit_poly_fl(`*y_series*`,` *y_fit_series*`,` *fit_coeff*`,` *degree*`,` [ *x_series* ]`,` [ *x_istime* ]`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
|*y_series*|string|&check;|The name of the input table column containing the [dependent variable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependent_and_independent_variables). That is, the series to fit.|
|*y_fit_series*|string|&check;|The name of the column to store the best fit series.|
|*fit_coeff*|string|&check;|The name of the column to store the best fit polynomial coefficients.|
|*degree*|int|&check;|The required order of the polynomial to fit. For example, 1 for linear regression, 2 for quadratic regression, and so on.|
|*x_series*|string||The name of the column containing the [independent variable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependent_and_independent_variables), that is, the x or time axis. This parameter is optional, and is needed only for [unevenly spaced series](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unevenly_spaced_time_series). The default value is an empty string, as x is redundant for the regression of an evenly spaced series.|
|*x_istime*|bool||This parameter is needed only if *x_series* is specified and it's a vector of datetime.|

## Function definition

You can define the function by either embedding its code as a query-defined function, or creating it as a stored function in your database, as follows:

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

Define the function using the following [let statement](../query/let-statement.md). No permissions are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> A [let statement](../query/let-statement.md) can't run on its own. It must be followed by a [tabular expression statement](../query/tabular-expression-statements.md). To run a working example of `series_fit_poly_fl()`, see [Examples](#examples).

~~~kusto
let series_fit_poly_fl=(tbl:(*), y_series:string, y_fit_series:string, fit_coeff:string, degree:int, x_series:string='', x_istime:bool=False)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('y_series', y_series, 'y_fit_series', y_fit_series, 'fit_coeff', fit_coeff, 'degree', degree, 'x_series', x_series, 'x_istime', x_istime);
    let code = ```if 1:
        y_series = kargs["y_series"]
        y_fit_series = kargs["y_fit_series"]
        fit_coeff = kargs["fit_coeff"]
        degree = kargs["degree"]
        x_series = kargs["x_series"]
        x_istime = kargs["x_istime"]
        
        def fit(ts_row, x_col, y_col, deg):
            y = ts_row[y_col]
            if x_col == "": # If there is no x column creates sequential range [1, len(y)]
               x = np.arange(len(y)) + 1
            else: # if x column exists check whether its a time column. If so, normalize it to the [1, len(y)] range, else take it as is.
               if x_istime: 
                   x = pd.to_numeric(pd.to_datetime(ts_row[x_col]))
                   x = x - x.min()
                   x = x / x.max()
                   x = x * (len(x) - 1) + 1
               else:
                   x = ts_row[x_col]
            coeff = np.polyfit(x, y, deg)
            p = np.poly1d(coeff)
            z = p(x)
            return z, coeff
        
        result = df
        if len(df):
           result[[y_fit_series, fit_coeff]] = df.apply(fit, axis=1, args=(x_series, y_series, degree,), result_type="expand")
    ```;
    tbl
     | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
// Write your query to use the function here.
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

Define the stored function once using the following [`.create function`](../management/create-function.md). [Database User permissions](../management/access-control/role-based-access-control.md) are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must run this code to create the function before you can use the function as shown in the [Examples](#examples).

~~~kusto
.create-or-alter function with (folder = "Packages\\Series", docstring = "Fit a polynomial of a specified degree to a series")
series_fit_poly_fl(tbl:(*), y_series:string, y_fit_series:string, fit_coeff:string, degree:int, x_series:string='', x_istime:bool=false)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('y_series', y_series, 'y_fit_series', y_fit_series, 'fit_coeff', fit_coeff, 'degree', degree, 'x_series', x_series, 'x_istime', x_istime);
    let code = ```if 1:
        y_series = kargs["y_series"]
        y_fit_series = kargs["y_fit_series"]
        fit_coeff = kargs["fit_coeff"]
        degree = kargs["degree"]
        x_series = kargs["x_series"]
        x_istime = kargs["x_istime"]
        
        def fit(ts_row, x_col, y_col, deg):
            y = ts_row[y_col]
            if x_col == "": # If there is no x column creates sequential range [1, len(y)]
               x = np.arange(len(y)) + 1
            else: # if x column exists check whether its a time column. If so, normalize it to the [1, len(y)] range, else take it as is.
               if x_istime: 
                   x = pd.to_numeric(pd.to_datetime(ts_row[x_col]))
                   x = x - x.min()
                   x = x / x.max()
                   x = x * (len(x) - 1) + 1
               else:
                   x = ts_row[x_col]
            coeff = np.polyfit(x, y, deg)
            p = np.poly1d(coeff)
            z = p(x)
            return z, coeff
        
        result = df
        if len(df):
           result[[y_fit_series, fit_coeff]] = df.apply(fit, axis=1, args=(x_series, y_series, degree,), result_type="expand")
    ```;
    tbl
     | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
}
~~~

---

## Examples

The following examples use the [invoke operator](../query/invoke-operator.md) to run the function.

### Fit fifth order polynomial to a regular time series

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

~~~kusto
let series_fit_poly_fl=(tbl:(*), y_series:string, y_fit_series:string, fit_coeff:string, degree:int, x_series:string='', x_istime:bool=False)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('y_series', y_series, 'y_fit_series', y_fit_series, 'fit_coeff', fit_coeff, 'degree', degree, 'x_series', x_series, 'x_istime', x_istime);
    let code = ```if 1:
        y_series = kargs["y_series"]
        y_fit_series = kargs["y_fit_series"]
        fit_coeff = kargs["fit_coeff"]
        degree = kargs["degree"]
        x_series = kargs["x_series"]
        x_istime = kargs["x_istime"]
        
        def fit(ts_row, x_col, y_col, deg):
            y = ts_row[y_col]
            if x_col == "": # If there is no x column creates sequential range [1, len(y)]
               x = np.arange(len(y)) + 1
            else: # if x column exists check whether its a time column. If so, normalize it to the [1, len(y)] range, else take it as is.
               if x_istime: 
                   x = pd.to_numeric(pd.to_datetime(ts_row[x_col]))
                   x = x - x.min()
                   x = x / x.max()
                   x = x * (len(x) - 1) + 1
               else:
                   x = ts_row[x_col]
            coeff = np.polyfit(x, y, deg)
            p = np.poly1d(coeff)
            z = p(x)
            return z, coeff
        
        result = df
        if len(df):
           result[[y_fit_series, fit_coeff]] = df.apply(fit, axis=1, args=(x_series, y_series, degree,), result_type="expand")
    ```;
    tbl
     | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
//
// Fit fifth order polynomial to a regular (evenly spaced) time series, created with make-series
//
let max_t = datetime(2016-09-03);
demo_make_series1
| make-series num=count() on TimeStamp from max_t-1d to max_t step 5m by OsVer
| extend fnum = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null), fnum1 = dynamic(null), coeff1=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('num', 'fnum', 'coeff', 5)
| render timechart with(ycolumns=num, fnum)
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

~~~kusto
//
// Fit fifth order polynomial to a regular (evenly spaced) time series, created with make-series
//
let max_t = datetime(2016-09-03);
demo_make_series1
| make-series num=count() on TimeStamp from max_t-1d to max_t step 5m by OsVer
| extend fnum = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null), fnum1 = dynamic(null), coeff1=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('num', 'fnum', 'coeff', 5)
| render timechart with(ycolumns=num, fnum)
~~~

---

**Output**

:::image type="content" source="media/series-fit-poly-fl/usage-example.png" alt-text="Graph showing fifth order polynomial fit to a regular time series." border="false":::

### Test irregular time series

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

~~~kusto
let series_fit_poly_fl=(tbl:(*), y_series:string, y_fit_series:string, fit_coeff:string, degree:int, x_series:string='', x_istime:bool=False)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('y_series', y_series, 'y_fit_series', y_fit_series, 'fit_coeff', fit_coeff, 'degree', degree, 'x_series', x_series, 'x_istime', x_istime);
    let code = ```if 1:
        y_series = kargs["y_series"]
        y_fit_series = kargs["y_fit_series"]
        fit_coeff = kargs["fit_coeff"]
        degree = kargs["degree"]
        x_series = kargs["x_series"]
        x_istime = kargs["x_istime"]
        
        def fit(ts_row, x_col, y_col, deg):
            y = ts_row[y_col]
            if x_col == "": # If there is no x column creates sequential range [1, len(y)]
               x = np.arange(len(y)) + 1
            else: # if x column exists check whether its a time column. If so, normalize it to the [1, len(y)] range, else take it as is.
               if x_istime: 
                   x = pd.to_numeric(pd.to_datetime(ts_row[x_col]))
                   x = x - x.min()
                   x = x / x.max()
                   x = x * (len(x) - 1) + 1
               else:
                   x = ts_row[x_col]
            coeff = np.polyfit(x, y, deg)
            p = np.poly1d(coeff)
            z = p(x)
            return z, coeff
        
        result = df
        if len(df):
           result[[y_fit_series, fit_coeff]] = df.apply(fit, axis=1, args=(x_series, y_series, degree,), result_type="expand")
    ```;
    tbl
     | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
let max_t = datetime(2016-09-03);
demo_make_series1
| where TimeStamp between ((max_t-2d)..max_t)
| summarize num=count() by bin(TimeStamp, 5m), OsVer
| order by TimeStamp asc
| where hourofday(TimeStamp) % 6 != 0   //  delete every 6th hour to create unevenly spaced time series
| summarize TimeStamp=make_list(TimeStamp), num=make_list(num) by OsVer
| extend fnum = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('num', 'fnum', 'coeff', 8, 'TimeStamp', True)
| render timechart with(ycolumns=num, fnum)
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

~~~kusto
let max_t = datetime(2016-09-03);
demo_make_series1
| where TimeStamp between ((max_t-2d)..max_t)
| summarize num=count() by bin(TimeStamp, 5m), OsVer
| order by TimeStamp asc
| where hourofday(TimeStamp) % 6 != 0   //  delete every 6th hour to create unevenly spaced time series
| summarize TimeStamp=make_list(TimeStamp), num=make_list(num) by OsVer
| extend fnum = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('num', 'fnum', 'coeff', 8, 'TimeStamp', True)
| render timechart with(ycolumns=num, fnum)
~~~

---

**Output**

:::image type="content" source="media/series-fit-poly-fl/irregular-time-series.png" alt-text="Graph showing eighth order polynomial fit to an irregular time series." border="false":::

### Fifth order polynomial with noise on x & y axes
### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

~~~kusto
let series_fit_poly_fl=(tbl:(*), y_series:string, y_fit_series:string, fit_coeff:string, degree:int, x_series:string='', x_istime:bool=False)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('y_series', y_series, 'y_fit_series', y_fit_series, 'fit_coeff', fit_coeff, 'degree', degree, 'x_series', x_series, 'x_istime', x_istime);
    let code = ```if 1:
        y_series = kargs["y_series"]
        y_fit_series = kargs["y_fit_series"]
        fit_coeff = kargs["fit_coeff"]
        degree = kargs["degree"]
        x_series = kargs["x_series"]
        x_istime = kargs["x_istime"]
        
        def fit(ts_row, x_col, y_col, deg):
            y = ts_row[y_col]
            if x_col == "": # If there is no x column creates sequential range [1, len(y)]
               x = np.arange(len(y)) + 1
            else: # if x column exists check whether its a time column. If so, normalize it to the [1, len(y)] range, else take it as is.
               if x_istime: 
                   x = pd.to_numeric(pd.to_datetime(ts_row[x_col]))
                   x = x - x.min()
                   x = x / x.max()
                   x = x * (len(x) - 1) + 1
               else:
                   x = ts_row[x_col]
            coeff = np.polyfit(x, y, deg)
            p = np.poly1d(coeff)
            z = p(x)
            return z, coeff
        
        result = df
        if len(df):
           result[[y_fit_series, fit_coeff]] = df.apply(fit, axis=1, args=(x_series, y_series, degree,), result_type="expand")
    ```;
    tbl
     | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
range x from 1 to 200 step 1
| project x = rand()*5 - 2.3
| extend y = pow(x, 5)-8*pow(x, 3)+10*x+6
| extend y = y + (rand() - 0.5)*0.5*y
| summarize x=make_list(x), y=make_list(y)
| extend y_fit = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('y', 'y_fit', 'coeff', 5, 'x')
|fork (project-away coeff) (project coeff | mv-expand coeff)
| render linechart
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

~~~kusto
range x from 1 to 200 step 1
| project x = rand()*5 - 2.3
| extend y = pow(x, 5)-8*pow(x, 3)+10*x+6
| extend y = y + (rand() - 0.5)*0.5*y
| summarize x=make_list(x), y=make_list(y)
| extend y_fit = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('y', 'y_fit', 'coeff', 5, 'x')
|fork (project-away coeff) (project coeff | mv-expand coeff)
| render linechart
~~~

---

**Output**

:::image type="content" source="media/series-fit-poly-fl/fifth-order-noise.png" alt-text="Graph of fit of fifth order polynomial with noise on x & y axes":::

:::image type="content" source="media/series-fit-poly-fl/fifth-order-noise-table.png" alt-text="Coefficients of fit of fifth order polynomial with noise." border="false":::

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="azuremonitor"

This feature isn't supported.

::: zone-end

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/functions-library/series-fit-poly-fl.md, after:

---
title:  series_fit_poly_fl()
description: This article describes the series_fit_poly_fl() user-defined function in Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: adieldar
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/16/2023
zone_pivot_group_filename: data-explorer/zone-pivot-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: kql-flavors-all
---
# series_fit_poly_fl()

::: zone pivot="azuredataexplorer, fabric"

The function `series_fit_poly_fl()` is a [user-defined function (UDF)](../query/functions/user-defined-functions.md) that applies a polynomial regression on a series. This function takes a table containing multiple series (dynamic numerical arrays) and generates the best fit high-order polynomial for each series using [polynomial regression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polynomial_regression). This function returns both the polynomial coefficients and the interpolated polynomial over the range of the series.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * Use the native function [series_fit_poly()](../query/series-fit-poly-function.md) instead of the function described in this document. The native function provides the same functionality and is better for performance and scalability. This document is provided for reference purposes only.
> * For linear regression of an evenly spaced series, as created by [make-series operator](../query/make-series-operator.md), use the native function [series_fit_line()](../query/series-fit-line-function.md).

[!INCLUDE [python-zone-pivot-fabric](../../includes/python-zone-pivot-fabric.md)]

## Syntax

`T | invoke series_fit_poly_fl(`*y_series*`,` *y_fit_series*`,` *fit_coeff*`,` *degree*`,` [ *x_series* ]`,` [ *x_istime* ]`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
|*y_series*|string| :heavy_check_mark:|The name of the input table column containing the [dependent variable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependent_and_independent_variables). That is, the series to fit.|
|*y_fit_series*|string| :heavy_check_mark:|The name of the column to store the best fit series.|
|*fit_coeff*|string| :heavy_check_mark:|The name of the column to store the best fit polynomial coefficients.|
|*degree*|int| :heavy_check_mark:|The required order of the polynomial to fit. For example, 1 for linear regression, 2 for quadratic regression, and so on.|
|*x_series*|string||The name of the column containing the [independent variable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependent_and_independent_variables), that is, the x or time axis. This parameter is optional, and is needed only for [unevenly spaced series](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unevenly_spaced_time_series). The default value is an empty string, as x is redundant for the regression of an evenly spaced series.|
|*x_istime*|bool||This parameter is needed only if *x_series* is specified and it's a vector of datetime.|

## Function definition

You can define the function by either embedding its code as a query-defined function, or creating it as a stored function in your database, as follows:

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

Define the function using the following [let statement](../query/let-statement.md). No permissions are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> A [let statement](../query/let-statement.md) can't run on its own. It must be followed by a [tabular expression statement](../query/tabular-expression-statements.md). To run a working example of `series_fit_poly_fl()`, see [Examples](#examples).

~~~kusto
let series_fit_poly_fl=(tbl:(*), y_series:string, y_fit_series:string, fit_coeff:string, degree:int, x_series:string='', x_istime:bool=False)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('y_series', y_series, 'y_fit_series', y_fit_series, 'fit_coeff', fit_coeff, 'degree', degree, 'x_series', x_series, 'x_istime', x_istime);
    let code = ```if 1:
        y_series = kargs["y_series"]
        y_fit_series = kargs["y_fit_series"]
        fit_coeff = kargs["fit_coeff"]
        degree = kargs["degree"]
        x_series = kargs["x_series"]
        x_istime = kargs["x_istime"]
        
        def fit(ts_row, x_col, y_col, deg):
            y = ts_row[y_col]
            if x_col == "": # If there is no x column creates sequential range [1, len(y)]
               x = np.arange(len(y)) + 1
            else: # if x column exists check whether its a time column. If so, normalize it to the [1, len(y)] range, else take it as is.
               if x_istime: 
                   x = pd.to_numeric(pd.to_datetime(ts_row[x_col]))
                   x = x - x.min()
                   x = x / x.max()
                   x = x * (len(x) - 1) + 1
               else:
                   x = ts_row[x_col]
            coeff = np.polyfit(x, y, deg)
            p = np.poly1d(coeff)
            z = p(x)
            return z, coeff
        
        result = df
        if len(df):
           result[[y_fit_series, fit_coeff]] = df.apply(fit, axis=1, args=(x_series, y_series, degree,), result_type="expand")
    ```;
    tbl
     | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
// Write your query to use the function here.
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

Define the stored function once using the following [`.create function`](../management/create-function.md). [Database User permissions](../management/access-control/role-based-access-control.md) are required.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must run this code to create the function before you can use the function as shown in the [Examples](#examples).

~~~kusto
.create-or-alter function with (folder = "Packages\\Series", docstring = "Fit a polynomial of a specified degree to a series")
series_fit_poly_fl(tbl:(*), y_series:string, y_fit_series:string, fit_coeff:string, degree:int, x_series:string='', x_istime:bool=false)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('y_series', y_series, 'y_fit_series', y_fit_series, 'fit_coeff', fit_coeff, 'degree', degree, 'x_series', x_series, 'x_istime', x_istime);
    let code = ```if 1:
        y_series = kargs["y_series"]
        y_fit_series = kargs["y_fit_series"]
        fit_coeff = kargs["fit_coeff"]
        degree = kargs["degree"]
        x_series = kargs["x_series"]
        x_istime = kargs["x_istime"]
        
        def fit(ts_row, x_col, y_col, deg):
            y = ts_row[y_col]
            if x_col == "": # If there is no x column creates sequential range [1, len(y)]
               x = np.arange(len(y)) + 1
            else: # if x column exists check whether its a time column. If so, normalize it to the [1, len(y)] range, else take it as is.
               if x_istime: 
                   x = pd.to_numeric(pd.to_datetime(ts_row[x_col]))
                   x = x - x.min()
                   x = x / x.max()
                   x = x * (len(x) - 1) + 1
               else:
                   x = ts_row[x_col]
            coeff = np.polyfit(x, y, deg)
            p = np.poly1d(coeff)
            z = p(x)
            return z, coeff
        
        result = df
        if len(df):
           result[[y_fit_series, fit_coeff]] = df.apply(fit, axis=1, args=(x_series, y_series, degree,), result_type="expand")
    ```;
    tbl
     | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
}
~~~

---

## Examples

The following examples use the [invoke operator](../query/invoke-operator.md) to run the function.

### Fit fifth order polynomial to a regular time series

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

~~~kusto
let series_fit_poly_fl=(tbl:(*), y_series:string, y_fit_series:string, fit_coeff:string, degree:int, x_series:string='', x_istime:bool=False)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('y_series', y_series, 'y_fit_series', y_fit_series, 'fit_coeff', fit_coeff, 'degree', degree, 'x_series', x_series, 'x_istime', x_istime);
    let code = ```if 1:
        y_series = kargs["y_series"]
        y_fit_series = kargs["y_fit_series"]
        fit_coeff = kargs["fit_coeff"]
        degree = kargs["degree"]
        x_series = kargs["x_series"]
        x_istime = kargs["x_istime"]
        
        def fit(ts_row, x_col, y_col, deg):
            y = ts_row[y_col]
            if x_col == "": # If there is no x column creates sequential range [1, len(y)]
               x = np.arange(len(y)) + 1
            else: # if x column exists check whether its a time column. If so, normalize it to the [1, len(y)] range, else take it as is.
               if x_istime: 
                   x = pd.to_numeric(pd.to_datetime(ts_row[x_col]))
                   x = x - x.min()
                   x = x / x.max()
                   x = x * (len(x) - 1) + 1
               else:
                   x = ts_row[x_col]
            coeff = np.polyfit(x, y, deg)
            p = np.poly1d(coeff)
            z = p(x)
            return z, coeff
        
        result = df
        if len(df):
           result[[y_fit_series, fit_coeff]] = df.apply(fit, axis=1, args=(x_series, y_series, degree,), result_type="expand")
    ```;
    tbl
     | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
//
// Fit fifth order polynomial to a regular (evenly spaced) time series, created with make-series
//
let max_t = datetime(2016-09-03);
demo_make_series1
| make-series num=count() on TimeStamp from max_t-1d to max_t step 5m by OsVer
| extend fnum = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null), fnum1 = dynamic(null), coeff1=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('num', 'fnum', 'coeff', 5)
| render timechart with(ycolumns=num, fnum)
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

~~~kusto
//
// Fit fifth order polynomial to a regular (evenly spaced) time series, created with make-series
//
let max_t = datetime(2016-09-03);
demo_make_series1
| make-series num=count() on TimeStamp from max_t-1d to max_t step 5m by OsVer
| extend fnum = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null), fnum1 = dynamic(null), coeff1=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('num', 'fnum', 'coeff', 5)
| render timechart with(ycolumns=num, fnum)
~~~

---

**Output**

:::image type="content" source="media/series-fit-poly-fl/usage-example.png" alt-text="Graph showing fifth order polynomial fit to a regular time series." border="false":::

### Test irregular time series

### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

~~~kusto
let series_fit_poly_fl=(tbl:(*), y_series:string, y_fit_series:string, fit_coeff:string, degree:int, x_series:string='', x_istime:bool=False)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('y_series', y_series, 'y_fit_series', y_fit_series, 'fit_coeff', fit_coeff, 'degree', degree, 'x_series', x_series, 'x_istime', x_istime);
    let code = ```if 1:
        y_series = kargs["y_series"]
        y_fit_series = kargs["y_fit_series"]
        fit_coeff = kargs["fit_coeff"]
        degree = kargs["degree"]
        x_series = kargs["x_series"]
        x_istime = kargs["x_istime"]
        
        def fit(ts_row, x_col, y_col, deg):
            y = ts_row[y_col]
            if x_col == "": # If there is no x column creates sequential range [1, len(y)]
               x = np.arange(len(y)) + 1
            else: # if x column exists check whether its a time column. If so, normalize it to the [1, len(y)] range, else take it as is.
               if x_istime: 
                   x = pd.to_numeric(pd.to_datetime(ts_row[x_col]))
                   x = x - x.min()
                   x = x / x.max()
                   x = x * (len(x) - 1) + 1
               else:
                   x = ts_row[x_col]
            coeff = np.polyfit(x, y, deg)
            p = np.poly1d(coeff)
            z = p(x)
            return z, coeff
        
        result = df
        if len(df):
           result[[y_fit_series, fit_coeff]] = df.apply(fit, axis=1, args=(x_series, y_series, degree,), result_type="expand")
    ```;
    tbl
     | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
let max_t = datetime(2016-09-03);
demo_make_series1
| where TimeStamp between ((max_t-2d)..max_t)
| summarize num=count() by bin(TimeStamp, 5m), OsVer
| order by TimeStamp asc
| where hourofday(TimeStamp) % 6 != 0   //  delete every 6th hour to create unevenly spaced time series
| summarize TimeStamp=make_list(TimeStamp), num=make_list(num) by OsVer
| extend fnum = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('num', 'fnum', 'coeff', 8, 'TimeStamp', True)
| render timechart with(ycolumns=num, fnum)
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

~~~kusto
let max_t = datetime(2016-09-03);
demo_make_series1
| where TimeStamp between ((max_t-2d)..max_t)
| summarize num=count() by bin(TimeStamp, 5m), OsVer
| order by TimeStamp asc
| where hourofday(TimeStamp) % 6 != 0   //  delete every 6th hour to create unevenly spaced time series
| summarize TimeStamp=make_list(TimeStamp), num=make_list(num) by OsVer
| extend fnum = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('num', 'fnum', 'coeff', 8, 'TimeStamp', True)
| render timechart with(ycolumns=num, fnum)
~~~

---

**Output**

:::image type="content" source="media/series-fit-poly-fl/irregular-time-series.png" alt-text="Graph showing eighth order polynomial fit to an irregular time series." border="false":::

### Fifth order polynomial with noise on x & y axes
### [Query-defined](#tab/query-defined)

To use a query-defined function, invoke it after the embedded function definition.

~~~kusto
let series_fit_poly_fl=(tbl:(*), y_series:string, y_fit_series:string, fit_coeff:string, degree:int, x_series:string='', x_istime:bool=False)
{
    let kwargs = bag_pack('y_series', y_series, 'y_fit_series', y_fit_series, 'fit_coeff', fit_coeff, 'degree', degree, 'x_series', x_series, 'x_istime', x_istime);
    let code = ```if 1:
        y_series = kargs["y_series"]
        y_fit_series = kargs["y_fit_series"]
        fit_coeff = kargs["fit_coeff"]
        degree = kargs["degree"]
        x_series = kargs["x_series"]
        x_istime = kargs["x_istime"]
        
        def fit(ts_row, x_col, y_col, deg):
            y = ts_row[y_col]
            if x_col == "": # If there is no x column creates sequential range [1, len(y)]
               x = np.arange(len(y)) + 1
            else: # if x column exists check whether its a time column. If so, normalize it to the [1, len(y)] range, else take it as is.
               if x_istime: 
                   x = pd.to_numeric(pd.to_datetime(ts_row[x_col]))
                   x = x - x.min()
                   x = x / x.max()
                   x = x * (len(x) - 1) + 1
               else:
                   x = ts_row[x_col]
            coeff = np.polyfit(x, y, deg)
            p = np.poly1d(coeff)
            z = p(x)
            return z, coeff
        
        result = df
        if len(df):
           result[[y_fit_series, fit_coeff]] = df.apply(fit, axis=1, args=(x_series, y_series, degree,), result_type="expand")
    ```;
    tbl
     | evaluate python(typeof(*), code, kwargs)
};
range x from 1 to 200 step 1
| project x = rand()*5 - 2.3
| extend y = pow(x, 5)-8*pow(x, 3)+10*x+6
| extend y = y + (rand() - 0.5)*0.5*y
| summarize x=make_list(x), y=make_list(y)
| extend y_fit = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('y', 'y_fit', 'coeff', 5, 'x')
|fork (project-away coeff) (project coeff | mv-expand coeff)
| render linechart
~~~

### [Stored](#tab/stored)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> For this example to run successfully, you must first run the [Function definition](#function-definition) code to store the function.

~~~kusto
range x from 1 to 200 step 1
| project x = rand()*5 - 2.3
| extend y = pow(x, 5)-8*pow(x, 3)+10*x+6
| extend y = y + (rand() - 0.5)*0.5*y
| summarize x=make_list(x), y=make_list(y)
| extend y_fit = dynamic(null), coeff=dynamic(null)
| invoke series_fit_poly_fl('y', 'y_fit', 'coeff', 5, 'x')
|fork (project-away coeff) (project coeff | mv-expand coeff)
| render linechart
~~~

---

**Output**

:::image type="content" source="media/series-fit-poly-fl/fifth-order-noise.png" alt-text="Graph of fit of fifth order polynomial with noise on x & y axes":::

:::image type="content" source="media/series-fit-poly-fl/fifth-order-noise-table.png" alt-text="Coefficients of fit of fifth order polynomial with noise." border="false":::

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="azuremonitor"

This feature isn't supported.

::: zone-end
