data-explorer/kusto/management/materialized-views/materialized-view-create-or-alter.md, before:

---
title:  .create-or-alter materialized view
description: This article describes `.create-or-alter materialized view` in Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: yifats
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/22/2023
---
# .create-or-alter materialized-view

Creates a materialized view or alters an existing materialized view.

## Permissions

You must have at least [Materialized View Admin](../access-control/role-based-access-control.md) permissions to run this command.

## Syntax

`.create-or-alter` `materialized-view` [ `with` `(`*PropertyName* `=` *PropertyValue*`,`...`)`] *MaterializedViewName* `on table` *SourceTableName* `{` *Query* `}`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name                            | Type   | Required | Description    |
|---------------------------------|--------|----------|---------|
| *PropertyName*, *PropertyValue* | string |          | List of properties in the form of name and value pairs, from the list of [supported properties](#properties).                                                                                                                        |
| *MaterializedViewName*          | string | &check;  | Name of the materialized view. The view name can't conflict with table or function names in the same database and must adhere to the [identifier naming rules](../../query/schema-entities/entity-names.md#identifier-naming-rules). |
| *SourceTableName*               | string | &check;  | Name of source table on which the view is defined.                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| *Query*                         | string | &check;  | Query definition of the materialized view.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

## Properties

### New table

If the table is new, the following properties are supported in the `with(`*PropertyName* `=` *PropertyValue* `)`. All properties are optional.

[!INCLUDE [materialized-view-create-properties](../../../includes/materialized-view-create-properties.md)]

### Existing table

If the table already exists, only the following subset of properties are supported in the `with(`*PropertyName* `=` *PropertyValue* `)`. All properties are optional.

| Name                      | Type     | Description  |
|---------------------------|--------- |--------|
| lookback                  | timespan | Valid only for `arg_max`/`arg_min`/`take_any` materialized views. It limits the period of time in which duplicates are expected. For example, if a lookback of 6 hours is specified on an `arg_max` view, the deduplication between newly ingested records and existing ones will take into consideration only records that were ingested up to 6 hours ago. <br><br>Lookback is relative to `ingestion_time`. Defining the lookback period incorrectly might lead to duplicates in the materialized view. For example, if a record for a specific key is ingested 10 hours after a record for the same key was ingested, and the lookback is set to 6 hours, that key will be a duplicate in the view. The lookback period is applied during both [materialization time](materialized-view-overview.md#how-materialized-views-work) and [query time](materialized-view-overview.md#materialized-views-queries). |
| autoUpdateSchema          | bool     | Whether to automatically update the view on source table changes. Default is `false`. This option is valid only for views of type `arg_max(Timestamp, *)`/`arg_min(Timestamp, *)`/`take_any(*)` (only when the column's argument is `*`). If this option is set to `true`, changes to the source table will be automatically reflected in the materialized view.       |
| dimensionTables           | array    | A dynamic argument that includes an array of dimension tables in the view. See [Query parameter](materialized-view-create.md#query-parameter).      |
| folder                    | string   | The materialized view's folder.          |
| docString                 | string   | A string that documents the materialized view.       |

## Returns

[!INCLUDE [materialized-view-show-command-output-schema.md](../../../includes/materialized-view-show-command-output-schema.md)]

## Examples

### Create or alter a materialized view

The following command creates a new or alters an existing materialized view called ArgMax:

```kusto
.create-or-alter materialized-view ArgMax on table T
{
    T | summarize arg_max(Timestamp, *) by User
}
```

**Output:**

| Name   | SourceTable | Query                                               | MaterializedTo                   | LastRun                      | LastRunResult | IsHealthy | IsEnabled | Folder           | DocString | AutoUpdateSchema | EffectiveDateTime            | Lookback   |
|--------|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|------------------------------|---------------|-----------|-----------|------------------|-----------|------------------|------------------------------|------------|
| ArgMax | T           | T \| summarize arg_max(Timestamp, *) by User        | 2023-02-26T16:40:03.3345704Z     | 2023-02-26T16:44:15.9033667Z | Completed     | true      | true      |                  |           | false            | 2023-02-23T14:01:42.5172342Z |            |

## Remarks

If the materialized view does not exist, this command behaves just like [.create materialized-view](materialized-view-create.md).

For more information, see the [Query parameter](materialized-view-create.md#query-parameter) and [Properties](materialized-view-create.md#properties) sections.

[!INCLUDE [materialized-view-alter-limitations.md](../../../includes/materialized-view-alter-limitations.md)]

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/management/materialized-views/materialized-view-create-or-alter.md, after:

---
title:  .create-or-alter materialized view
description: This article describes `.create-or-alter materialized view` in Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: yifats
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/22/2023
---
# .create-or-alter materialized-view

Creates a materialized view or alters an existing materialized view.

## Permissions

You must have at least [Materialized View Admin](../access-control/role-based-access-control.md) permissions to run this command.

## Syntax

`.create-or-alter` `materialized-view` [ `with` `(`*PropertyName* `=` *PropertyValue*`,`...`)`] *MaterializedViewName* `on table` *SourceTableName* `{` *Query* `}`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name                            | Type   | Required | Description    |
|---------------------------------|--------|----------|---------|
| *PropertyName*, *PropertyValue* | string |          | List of properties in the form of name and value pairs, from the list of [supported properties](#properties).                                                                                                                        |
| *MaterializedViewName*          | string |  :heavy_check_mark:  | Name of the materialized view. The view name can't conflict with table or function names in the same database and must adhere to the [identifier naming rules](../../query/schema-entities/entity-names.md#identifier-naming-rules). |
| *SourceTableName*               | string |  :heavy_check_mark:  | Name of source table on which the view is defined.                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| *Query*                         | string |  :heavy_check_mark:  | Query definition of the materialized view.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

## Properties

### New table

If the table is new, the following properties are supported in the `with(`*PropertyName* `=` *PropertyValue* `)`. All properties are optional.

[!INCLUDE [materialized-view-create-properties](../../../includes/materialized-view-create-properties.md)]

### Existing table

If the table already exists, only the following subset of properties are supported in the `with(`*PropertyName* `=` *PropertyValue* `)`. All properties are optional.

| Name                      | Type     | Description  |
|---------------------------|--------- |--------|
| lookback                  | timespan | Valid only for `arg_max`/`arg_min`/`take_any` materialized views. It limits the period of time in which duplicates are expected. For example, if a lookback of 6 hours is specified on an `arg_max` view, the deduplication between newly ingested records and existing ones will take into consideration only records that were ingested up to 6 hours ago. <br><br>Lookback is relative to `ingestion_time`. Defining the lookback period incorrectly might lead to duplicates in the materialized view. For example, if a record for a specific key is ingested 10 hours after a record for the same key was ingested, and the lookback is set to 6 hours, that key will be a duplicate in the view. The lookback period is applied during both [materialization time](materialized-view-overview.md#how-materialized-views-work) and [query time](materialized-view-overview.md#materialized-views-queries). |
| autoUpdateSchema          | bool     | Whether to automatically update the view on source table changes. Default is `false`. This option is valid only for views of type `arg_max(Timestamp, *)`/`arg_min(Timestamp, *)`/`take_any(*)` (only when the column's argument is `*`). If this option is set to `true`, changes to the source table will be automatically reflected in the materialized view.       |
| dimensionTables           | array    | A dynamic argument that includes an array of dimension tables in the view. See [Query parameter](materialized-view-create.md#query-parameter).      |
| folder                    | string   | The materialized view's folder.          |
| docString                 | string   | A string that documents the materialized view.       |

## Returns

[!INCLUDE [materialized-view-show-command-output-schema.md](../../../includes/materialized-view-show-command-output-schema.md)]

## Examples

### Create or alter a materialized view

The following command creates a new or alters an existing materialized view called ArgMax:

```kusto
.create-or-alter materialized-view ArgMax on table T
{
    T | summarize arg_max(Timestamp, *) by User
}
```

**Output:**

| Name   | SourceTable | Query                                               | MaterializedTo                   | LastRun                      | LastRunResult | IsHealthy | IsEnabled | Folder           | DocString | AutoUpdateSchema | EffectiveDateTime            | Lookback   |
|--------|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|------------------------------|---------------|-----------|-----------|------------------|-----------|------------------|------------------------------|------------|
| ArgMax | T           | T \| summarize arg_max(Timestamp, *) by User        | 2023-02-26T16:40:03.3345704Z     | 2023-02-26T16:44:15.9033667Z | Completed     | true      | true      |                  |           | false            | 2023-02-23T14:01:42.5172342Z |            |

## Remarks

If the materialized view does not exist, this command behaves just like [.create materialized-view](materialized-view-create.md).

For more information, see the [Query parameter](materialized-view-create.md#query-parameter) and [Properties](materialized-view-create.md#properties) sections.

[!INCLUDE [materialized-view-alter-limitations.md](../../../includes/materialized-view-alter-limitations.md)]
