data-explorer/kusto/management/alter-column-docstrings.md, before:

---
title:  .alter table column-docstrings command
description: Learn how to use the `.alter table column-docstrings` command to set the `DocString` property of one or more columns of the specified table.
ms.reviewer: orspodek
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 05/25/2023
---
# .alter table column-docstrings command

Sets the `DocString` property of one or more columns of the specified table. Columns not explicitly set will have this property removed.

## Permissions

You must have at least [Table Admin](access-control/role-based-access-control.md) permissions to run this command.

## Syntax

`.alter` `table` *TableName* `column-docstrings` `(` *Col1* `:` *DocString1* [`,` *Col2* `:` *DocString2*]... `)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *DocString* | string | &check; | Free text that you can attach to a table/function/column to describe the entity. This string is presented in various UX settings next to the entity names.|
| *TableName* | string | &check; | The name of the table on which the operation is performed.|
| *Col* | string | &check; | The column on which the operation is performed.|

## Example

```kusto
.alter table Table1 column-docstrings (Column1:"DocString1", Column2:"DocString2")
```

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/management/alter-column-docstrings.md, after:

---
title:  .alter table column-docstrings command
description: Learn how to use the `.alter table column-docstrings` command to set the `DocString` property of one or more columns of the specified table.
ms.reviewer: orspodek
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 05/25/2023
---
# .alter table column-docstrings command

Sets the `DocString` property of one or more columns of the specified table. Columns not explicitly set will have this property removed.

## Permissions

You must have at least [Table Admin](access-control/role-based-access-control.md) permissions to run this command.

## Syntax

`.alter` `table` *TableName* `column-docstrings` `(` *Col1* `:` *DocString1* [`,` *Col2* `:` *DocString2*]... `)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *DocString* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | Free text that you can attach to a table/function/column to describe the entity. This string is presented in various UX settings next to the entity names.|
| *TableName* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The name of the table on which the operation is performed.|
| *Col* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The column on which the operation is performed.|

## Example

```kusto
.alter table Table1 column-docstrings (Column1:"DocString1", Column2:"DocString2")
```
