data-explorer/kusto/management/create-function.md, before:

---
title: .create function command
description: Learn how to use the `.create function` command to create a stored function.
ms.reviewer: orspodek
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 05/24/2023
---
# .create function command

Creates a stored function, which is a reusable KQL query,  with the given name. The function definition is persisted with the database metadata.

Functions can call other functions (recursiveness isn't supported). Besides, [`let`](../query/letstatement.md) statements are allowed as part of the *Function Body*. See [`let` statements](../query/letstatement.md).

Rules for parameter types and CSL statements are the same as for [`let` statements](../query/letstatement.md).

## Permissions

You must have at least [Database User](access-control/role-based-access-control.md) permissions to run this command.

## Syntax

`.create` `function` [ `ifnotexists` ] [ `with` `(`*propertyName* `=` *propertyValue* [`,` ...]`)` ]
*functionName* `(`*parameters*`)` `{` *body* `}`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
| `ifnotexists` | string | | If specified, the function will only be created if the function doesn't yet exist.|
|*functionName* | string | &check; | The name of the function to create or alter.|
| *propertyName*, *propertyValue* | string | | A comma-separated list of key-value property pairs. See [supported properties](#supported-properties).|
|*parameters*  | string | | A comma-separated list of parameters required by the function. The format for each parameter must be *ParameterName*`:`*ParameterDataType*.|
|*body*| string | &check; | A user defined function expression.|

### Supported properties

|Name|Type|Description|
|--|--|--|
|`docstring`|string|A description of the function for UI purposes.|
|`folder`|string|The name of a folder used for UI functions categorization.|
|`view`|bool|Designates this function as a stored view. Stored views can participate in [search](../query/searchoperator.md) and [union *](../query/unionoperator.md) scenarios. For more information, see [Views](../query/schema-entities/views.md).|
|`skipvalidation`|bool|Determines whether or not to run validation logic on the function, and fail the process if the function isn't valid. The default is `false`.|

## Returns

|Output parameter |Type |Description
|---|---|---|
|Name |String |The name of the function.
|Parameters  |String |The parameters required by the function.
|Body  |String |(Zero or more) `let` statements followed by a valid CSL expression that is evaluated upon function invocation.
|Folder|String|A folder used for UI functions categorization. This parameter doesn't change the way function is invoked.
|DocString|String|A description of the function for UI purposes.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * If the function already exists:
>   * If `ifnotexists` flag is specified, the command is ignored (no change applied).
>   * If `ifnotexists` flag is NOT specified, an error is returned.
>   * For altering an existing function, see [`.alter function`](alter-function.md)
> * Not all data types are supported in `let` statements. Supported types are: boolean, string, long, datetime, timespan, double, and dynamic.
> * Use `skipvalidation` to skip semantic validation of the function. This is useful when functions are created in an incorrect order and F1 that uses F2 is created earlier.

## Examples

### Simple demo function

```kusto
.create function 
with (docstring = 'Simple demo function', folder='Demo')
MyFunction1()  {StormEvents | take 100}
```

|Name|Parameters|Body|Folder|DocString|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|MyFunction1|()|{StormEvents &#124; take 100}|Demo|Simple demo function|

### Demo function with parameter

```kusto
.create function
with (docstring = 'Demo function with parameter', folder='Demo')
 MyFunction2(myLimit: long)  {StormEvents | take myLimit}
```

|Name|Parameters|Body|Folder|DocString|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|MyFunction2|(myLimit:long)|{StormEvents &#124; take myLimit}|Demo|Demo function with parameter|

Commit message:

cross cluster query script limitation

data-explorer/kusto/management/create-function.md, after:

---
title: .create function command
description: Learn how to use the `.create function` command to create a stored function.
ms.reviewer: orspodek
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 09/10/2023
---
# .create function command

Creates a stored function, which is a reusable KQL query,  with the given name. The function definition is persisted with the database metadata.

Functions can call other functions (recursiveness isn't supported). Besides, [`let`](../query/letstatement.md) statements are allowed as part of the *Function Body*. See [`let` statements](../query/letstatement.md).

Rules for parameter types and CSL statements are the same as for [`let` statements](../query/letstatement.md).

## Permissions

You must have at least [Database User](access-control/role-based-access-control.md) permissions to run this command.

## Syntax

`.create` `function` [ `ifnotexists` ] [ `with` `(`*propertyName* `=` *propertyValue* [`,` ...]`)` ]
*functionName* `(`*parameters*`)` `{` *body* `}`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
| `ifnotexists` | string | | If specified, the function will only be created if the function doesn't yet exist.|
|*functionName* | string | &check; | The name of the function to create or alter.|
| *propertyName*, *propertyValue* | string | | A comma-separated list of key-value property pairs. See [supported properties](#supported-properties).|
|*parameters*  | string | | A comma-separated list of parameters required by the function. The format for each parameter must be *ParameterName*`:`*ParameterDataType*.|
|*body*| string | &check; | A user defined function expression.|

### Supported properties

|Name|Type|Description|
|--|--|--|
|`docstring`|string|A description of the function for UI purposes.|
|`folder`|string|The name of a folder used for UI functions categorization.|
|`view`|bool|Designates this function as a stored view. Stored views can participate in [search](../query/searchoperator.md) and [union *](../query/unionoperator.md) scenarios. For more information, see [Views](../query/schema-entities/views.md).|
|`skipvalidation`|bool|Determines whether or not to run validation logic on the function and fail the process if the function isn't valid. The default is `false`.|

> [!TIP]
> If a function involves [cross-cluster queries](../query/cross-cluster-or-database-queries.md) and you plan to recreate the function using a [Kusto Query Language script](../../database-script.md), set `skipvalidation` to `true`.

## Returns

|Output parameter |Type |Description
|---|---|---|
|Name |String |The name of the function.
|Parameters  |String |The parameters required by the function.
|Body  |String |(Zero or more) `let` statements followed by a valid CSL expression that is evaluated upon function invocation.
|Folder|String|A folder used for UI functions categorization. This parameter doesn't change the way function is invoked.
|DocString|String|A description of the function for UI purposes.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * If the function already exists:
>   * If `ifnotexists` flag is specified, the command is ignored (no change applied).
>   * If `ifnotexists` flag is NOT specified, an error is returned.
>   * For altering an existing function, see [`.alter function`](alter-function.md)
> * Not all data types are supported in `let` statements. Supported types are: boolean, string, long, datetime, timespan, double, and dynamic.
> * Use `skipvalidation` to skip semantic validation of the function. This is useful when functions are created in an incorrect order and F1 that uses F2 is created earlier.

## Examples

### Simple demo function

```kusto
.create function 
with (docstring = 'Simple demo function', folder='Demo')
MyFunction1()  {StormEvents | take 100}
```

|Name|Parameters|Body|Folder|DocString|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|MyFunction1|()|{StormEvents &#124; take 100}|Demo|Simple demo function|

### Demo function with parameter

```kusto
.create function
with (docstring = 'Demo function with parameter', folder='Demo')
 MyFunction2(myLimit: long)  {StormEvents | take myLimit}
```

|Name|Parameters|Body|Folder|DocString|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|MyFunction2|(myLimit:long)|{StormEvents &#124; take myLimit}|Demo|Demo function with parameter|
