data-explorer/kusto/management/drop-extent-tags.md, before:

---
title: .drop table extent tags command
description: Learn how to use the `.drop table extent tags` command to drop extent tags from a specified table in a database.
ms.reviewer: orspodek
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 05/15/2023
---

# .drop table extent tags

Drops specific [extent tags](extent-tags.md) from all or specific extents a table. The command runs in the context of a specific database.

> [!NOTE]
> Data shards are called **extents**, and all commands use "extent" or "extents" as a synonym.
> For more information on extents, see [Extents (Data Shards) Overview](extents-overview.md).

There are two ways to specify which tags should be removed from which extents:

* Explicitly specify the tags that should be removed from all extents in the specified table.
* Provide a query whose results specify the extent IDs in the table, and for each extent - the tags that should be removed.

## Permissions

You must have at least [Table Admin](access-control/role-based-access-control.md) permissions for all involved source and destination tables.

## Syntax

`.drop` [`async`] `table` *TableName* `extent` `tags` `(`*Tag* [`,` ...]`)` `with` `(` `extentCreatedOnFrom` `=` *FromDate* `,` `extentCreatedOnTo` `=` *ToDate*`)`

`.drop` [`async`] `table` *TableName* `extent` `tags` `with` `(` `extentCreatedOnFrom` `=` *FromDate* `,` `extentCreatedOnTo` `=` *ToDate*`)` `<|` *Query*

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
|`async`|string||If specified, the operation executes asynchronously.|
|*TableName*|string|&check;|The name of the table for which to drop the extent tags.|
|*Tag*|string|&check;|The names of the extent tags to drop.|
|*FromDate*|datetime||The start date range.|
|*ToDate*|datetime||The end date range.|
|*Query*|string|&check;|A [Kusto Query Language (KQL)](../query/index.md) query that returns the extent tags to be dropped. See [Specify extents with a query](#specify-extents-with-a-query).|

> [!NOTE]
> For better performance, set `extentCreatedOnFrom` and `extentCreatedOnTo` parameters to the smallest possible range.

## Restrictions

All extents must be in the context database, and must belong to the same table.

## Returns

An Operation ID (GUID) is returned.

> [!TIP]
>
> * The operation's status can be monitored with the GUID. Use the [`.show operations`](operations.md#show-operations) command.
> * Use the [`.show operation details`](operations.md#show-operation-details) command to retrieve the results of a successful execution.

## Specify extents with a query

The extents and the tags to drop are specified using a Kusto query. It returns a record set with a column called "ExtentId" and a column called "Tags".

> [!NOTE]
> When using the [Kusto .NET client library](../api/netfx/about-kusto-data.md), the following methods will generate the required command:
>
> * `CslCommandGenerator.GenerateExtentTagsDropByRegexCommand(string tableName, string regex)`
> * `CslCommandGenerator.GenerateExtentTagsDropBySubstringCommand(string tableName, string substring)`

## Return output

Output parameter |Type |Description
---|---|---
OriginalExtentId |string |A unique identifier (GUID) for the original extent whose tags have been modified. The extent is dropped as part of the operation.
ResultExtentId |string |A unique identifier (GUID) for the result extent that has modified tags. The extent is created and added as part of the operation. Upon failure - "Failed".
ResultExtentTags |string |The collection of tags that the result extent is tagged with, if any remain, or "null" in case the operation fails.
Details |string |Includes the failure details if the operation fails.

## Examples

### Drop one tag

Drop the `drop-by:Partition000` tag from any extent in table that is tagged with it:

```kusto
.drop extent tags from table MyOtherTable ('drop-by:Partition000')
```

### Drop several tags

Drop the tags `drop-by:20230312104500`, `a random tag`, and `drop-by:20230312` from any extent in table that is tagged with either of them:

```kusto
.drop table [My Table] extent tags ('drop-by:20230312104500','a random tag','drop-by:20230312') with (extentCreatedOnFrom=datetime(2023-03-10), extentCreatedOnTo=datetime(2023-03-12))
```

### Drop all `drop-by` tags in a specified creation time range

Drop all `drop-by` tags from extents in table `MyTable` in a specified creation time range:

```kusto
.drop table MyTable extent tags with (extentCreatedOnFrom=datetime(2023-03-10), extentCreatedOnTo=datetime(2023-03-12)) <| 
  .show table MyTable extents 
  | where isnotempty(Tags)
  | extend Tags = split(Tags, '\r\n') 
  | mv-expand Tags to typeof(string)
  | where Tags startswith 'drop-by'
```

### Drop all tags matching specific regex

Drop all tags matching regex `drop-by:StreamCreationTime_20160915(\d{6})` from extents in table `MyTable`:

```kusto
.drop table MyTable extent tags with (extentCreatedOnFrom=datetime(2023-03-10), extentCreatedOnTo=datetime(2023-03-12)) <| 
  .show table MyTable extents 
  | where isnotempty(Tags)
  | extend Tags = split(Tags, '\r\n')
  | mv-expand Tags to typeof(string)
  | where Tags matches regex @"drop-by:StreamCreationTime_20160915(\d{6})"
```

## Sample output

|OriginalExtentId |ResultExtentId | ResultExtentTags | Details
|---|---|---|---
|e133f050-a1e2-4dad-8552-1f5cf47cab69 |0d96ab2d-9dd2-4d2c-a45e-b24c65aa6687 | Partition001 |
|cdbeb35b-87ea-499f-b545-defbae091b57 |a90a303c-8a14-4207-8f35-d8ea94ca45be | |
|4fcb4598-9a31-4614-903c-0c67c286da8c |97aafea1-59ff-4312-b06b-08f42187872f | Partition001 Partition002 |
|2dfdef64-62a3-4950-a130-96b5b1083b5a |0fb7f3da-5e28-4f09-a000-e62eb41592df | |

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/management/drop-extent-tags.md, after:

---
title: .drop table extent tags command
description: Learn how to use the `.drop table extent tags` command to drop extent tags from a specified table in a database.
ms.reviewer: orspodek
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 05/15/2023
---

# .drop table extent tags

Drops specific [extent tags](extent-tags.md) from all or specific extents a table. The command runs in the context of a specific database.

> [!NOTE]
> Data shards are called **extents**, and all commands use "extent" or "extents" as a synonym.
> For more information on extents, see [Extents (Data Shards) Overview](extents-overview.md).

There are two ways to specify which tags should be removed from which extents:

* Explicitly specify the tags that should be removed from all extents in the specified table.
* Provide a query whose results specify the extent IDs in the table, and for each extent - the tags that should be removed.

## Permissions

You must have at least [Table Admin](access-control/role-based-access-control.md) permissions for all involved source and destination tables.

## Syntax

`.drop` [`async`] `table` *TableName* `extent` `tags` `(`*Tag* [`,` ...]`)` `with` `(` `extentCreatedOnFrom` `=` *FromDate* `,` `extentCreatedOnTo` `=` *ToDate*`)`

`.drop` [`async`] `table` *TableName* `extent` `tags` `with` `(` `extentCreatedOnFrom` `=` *FromDate* `,` `extentCreatedOnTo` `=` *ToDate*`)` `<|` *Query*

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
|`async`|string||If specified, the operation executes asynchronously.|
|*TableName*|string| :heavy_check_mark:|The name of the table for which to drop the extent tags.|
|*Tag*|string| :heavy_check_mark:|The names of the extent tags to drop.|
|*FromDate*|datetime||The start date range.|
|*ToDate*|datetime||The end date range.|
|*Query*|string| :heavy_check_mark:|A [Kusto Query Language (KQL)](../query/index.md) query that returns the extent tags to be dropped. See [Specify extents with a query](#specify-extents-with-a-query).|

> [!NOTE]
> For better performance, set `extentCreatedOnFrom` and `extentCreatedOnTo` parameters to the smallest possible range.

## Restrictions

All extents must be in the context database, and must belong to the same table.

## Returns

An Operation ID (GUID) is returned.

> [!TIP]
>
> * The operation's status can be monitored with the GUID. Use the [`.show operations`](operations.md#show-operations) command.
> * Use the [`.show operation details`](operations.md#show-operation-details) command to retrieve the results of a successful execution.

## Specify extents with a query

The extents and the tags to drop are specified using a Kusto query. It returns a record set with a column called "ExtentId" and a column called "Tags".

> [!NOTE]
> When using the [Kusto .NET client library](../api/netfx/about-kusto-data.md), the following methods will generate the required command:
>
> * `CslCommandGenerator.GenerateExtentTagsDropByRegexCommand(string tableName, string regex)`
> * `CslCommandGenerator.GenerateExtentTagsDropBySubstringCommand(string tableName, string substring)`

## Return output

Output parameter |Type |Description
---|---|---
OriginalExtentId |string |A unique identifier (GUID) for the original extent whose tags have been modified. The extent is dropped as part of the operation.
ResultExtentId |string |A unique identifier (GUID) for the result extent that has modified tags. The extent is created and added as part of the operation. Upon failure - "Failed".
ResultExtentTags |string |The collection of tags that the result extent is tagged with, if any remain, or "null" in case the operation fails.
Details |string |Includes the failure details if the operation fails.

## Examples

### Drop one tag

Drop the `drop-by:Partition000` tag from any extent in table that is tagged with it:

```kusto
.drop extent tags from table MyOtherTable ('drop-by:Partition000')
```

### Drop several tags

Drop the tags `drop-by:20230312104500`, `a random tag`, and `drop-by:20230312` from any extent in table that is tagged with either of them:

```kusto
.drop table [My Table] extent tags ('drop-by:20230312104500','a random tag','drop-by:20230312') with (extentCreatedOnFrom=datetime(2023-03-10), extentCreatedOnTo=datetime(2023-03-12))
```

### Drop all `drop-by` tags in a specified creation time range

Drop all `drop-by` tags from extents in table `MyTable` in a specified creation time range:

```kusto
.drop table MyTable extent tags with (extentCreatedOnFrom=datetime(2023-03-10), extentCreatedOnTo=datetime(2023-03-12)) <| 
  .show table MyTable extents 
  | where isnotempty(Tags)
  | extend Tags = split(Tags, '\r\n') 
  | mv-expand Tags to typeof(string)
  | where Tags startswith 'drop-by'
```

### Drop all tags matching specific regex

Drop all tags matching regex `drop-by:StreamCreationTime_20160915(\d{6})` from extents in table `MyTable`:

```kusto
.drop table MyTable extent tags with (extentCreatedOnFrom=datetime(2023-03-10), extentCreatedOnTo=datetime(2023-03-12)) <| 
  .show table MyTable extents 
  | where isnotempty(Tags)
  | extend Tags = split(Tags, '\r\n')
  | mv-expand Tags to typeof(string)
  | where Tags matches regex @"drop-by:StreamCreationTime_20160915(\d{6})"
```

## Sample output

|OriginalExtentId |ResultExtentId | ResultExtentTags | Details
|---|---|---|---
|e133f050-a1e2-4dad-8552-1f5cf47cab69 |0d96ab2d-9dd2-4d2c-a45e-b24c65aa6687 | Partition001 |
|cdbeb35b-87ea-499f-b545-defbae091b57 |a90a303c-8a14-4207-8f35-d8ea94ca45be | |
|4fcb4598-9a31-4614-903c-0c67c286da8c |97aafea1-59ff-4312-b06b-08f42187872f | Partition001 Partition002 |
|2dfdef64-62a3-4950-a130-96b5b1083b5a |0fb7f3da-5e28-4f09-a000-e62eb41592df | |
