---
title: MS-TDS/T-SQL Differences between Kusto Microsoft SQL Server - Azure Data Explorer | Microsoft Docs
description: This article describes MS-TDS/T-SQL Differences between Kusto Microsoft SQL Server in Azure Data Explorer.
services: data-explorer
author: orspod
ms.author: orspodek
ms.reviewer: mblythe
ms.service: data-explorer
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 09/04/2019

---
# MS-TDS/T-SQL Differences between Kusto Microsoft SQL Server

Below is partial list of the main differences between Kusto and SQL Server's implementation of T-SQL.

## CREATE, INSERT, DROP, ALTER statements

Kusto doesn't support schema modifications or data modifications through MS-TDS,
nor does it support the above T-SQL statements.

## Correlated sub-queries

Kusto doesn't support correlated sub-queries in `SELECT`, `WHERE`, and `JOIN` clauses.

## TOP flavors

Kusto ignores `WITH TIES` and evaluates query as regular `TOP`.
Kusto doesn't support `PERCENT`.

## Cursors

Kusto doesn't support SQL cursors.

## Flow control

Kusto doesn't support flow control statements, except for a few limited cases,
such as `IF` `THEN` `ELSE` clause that has the identical schema for the `THEN`
and `ELSE` batches.

## Data types

Depending on the query, the data returned may have a different type than in SQL Server.
An obvious example here are types such as `TINYINT` and `SMALLINT` that have no
equivalent in Kusto. Therefore, clients that expect a value of type `BYTE` or `INT16`
might get an `INT32` or an `INT64` value instead.

## Column order in results

When asterix is used in the `SELECT` statement, the order of columns in each result set
may differ between Kusto and SQL Server. Client that use column names would work better in these cases.
If there is no asterix character in the `SELECT` statement, the column ordinals would be preserved.

## Columns name in results

In T-SQL, multiple columns may have the same name. This is not allowed in Kusto.
In case of a collision in names, the names of the columns might be different in Kusto.
However, the original name would be preserved, at least for one of the columns.

## ANY, ALL, and EXISTS predicates

Kusto doesn't support the predicates `ANY`, `ALL`, and `EXISTS`.

## Recursive CTEs

Kusto doesn't support recursive common table expressions.

## Dynamic SQL

Kusto doesn't support dynamic SQL statements (inline execution of SQL script generated by the query).

## WITHIN GROUP

Kusto doesn't support `WITHIN GROUP` clause.

## TRUNCATE function

TRUNCATE function (ODBC) in Kusto works similarly to ROUND, which means that the result will be the nearest value instead of the lower one returned in SQL.