data-explorer/kusto/query/around-function.md, before:

---
title:  around() function
description: Learn how to use the around() function to indicate if the first argument is within a range around the center value.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 11/20/2022
---
# around()

Creates a `bool` value indicating if the first argument is within a range around the center value.

## Syntax

`around(`*value*`,`*center*`,`*delta*`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
|*value*| int, long, real, datetime, or timespan | &check; | The value to compare to the *center*.|
| *center* | int, long, real, datetime, or timespan | &check; | The center of the range defined as [(`center`-`delta`) .. (`center` + `delta`)]. |
| *delta* | int, long, real, datetime, or timespan | &check; | The delta value of the range defined as [(`center`-`delta`) .. (`center` + `delta`)].|

## Returns

Returns `true` if the value is within the range, `false` if the value is outside the range.
Returns `null` if any of the arguments is `null`.

## Example: Filtering values around a specific timestamp

The following example filters rows around specific timestamp.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAytKzEtPVUgpUeBSAIK0ovxchZTEktSSzNxUDSMDI0NdAxBSMDC0MjDQhCgqyceuxAihpLgktUDBMDczj6tGoTwjtShVIbEovzQvRSOlRAeX+cYGmjpgPZoA56xhi5QAAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
range dt 
    from datetime(2021-01-01 01:00) 
    to datetime(2021-01-01 02:00) 
    step 1min
| where around(dt, datetime(2021-01-01 01:30), 1min)
```

**Output**

|dt|
|---|
|2021-01-01 01:29:00.0000000|
|2021-01-01 01:30:00.0000000|
|2021-01-01 01:31:00.0000000|

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/query/around-function.md, after:

---
title:  around() function
description: Learn how to use the around() function to indicate if the first argument is within a range around the center value.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 11/20/2022
---
# around()

Creates a `bool` value indicating if the first argument is within a range around the center value.

## Syntax

`around(`*value*`,`*center*`,`*delta*`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
|*value*| int, long, real, datetime, or timespan |  :heavy_check_mark: | The value to compare to the *center*.|
| *center* | int, long, real, datetime, or timespan |  :heavy_check_mark: | The center of the range defined as [(`center`-`delta`) .. (`center` + `delta`)]. |
| *delta* | int, long, real, datetime, or timespan |  :heavy_check_mark: | The delta value of the range defined as [(`center`-`delta`) .. (`center` + `delta`)].|

## Returns

Returns `true` if the value is within the range, `false` if the value is outside the range.
Returns `null` if any of the arguments is `null`.

## Example: Filtering values around a specific timestamp

The following example filters rows around specific timestamp.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAytKzEtPVUgpUeBSAIK0ovxchZTEktSSzNxUDSMDI0NdAxBSMDC0MjDQhCgqyceuxAihpLgktUDBMDczj6tGoTwjtShVIbEovzQvRSOlRAeX+cYGmjpgPZoA56xhi5QAAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
range dt 
    from datetime(2021-01-01 01:00) 
    to datetime(2021-01-01 02:00) 
    step 1min
| where around(dt, datetime(2021-01-01 01:30), 1min)
```

**Output**

|dt|
|---|
|2021-01-01 01:29:00.0000000|
|2021-01-01 01:30:00.0000000|
|2021-01-01 01:31:00.0000000|
