data-explorer/kusto/query/geo-azimuth-function.md, before:

---
title:  geo_azimuth()
description: Learn how to use the geo_azimuth() function to calculate the angle between the true north and a line on Earth.
ms.reviewer: mbrichko
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 01/05/2024
---
# geo_azimuth()

Calculates clockwise angle in radians between the line from point1 to true north and a line from point1 to point2 on Earth.

## Syntax

`geo_azimuth(`*p1_longitude*`,`*p1_latitude*`,`*p2_longitude*`,`*p2_latitude*`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
|*p1_longitude*| real | &check; | The longitude value in degrees of the first geospatial coordinate. A valid value is in the range [-180, +180].|
|*p1_latitude*| real | &check; | The latitude value in degrees of the first geospatial coordinate. A valid value is in the range [-90, +90].|
|*p2_longitude*| real | &check; | The longitude value in degrees of the second geospatial coordinate. A valid value is in the range [-180, +180].|
|*p2_latitude*| real | &check; | The latitude value in degrees of the second geospatial coordinate. A valid value is in the range [-90, +90].|

## Returns

An angle in radians between the line from point p1 to true north and line [p1, p2]. The angle is measured CW.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * The geospatial coordinates are interpreted as represented by the [WGS-84](https://earth-info.nga.mil/index.php?dir=wgs84&action=wgs84) coordinate reference system.
> * The [geodetic datum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geodetic_datum) used to measure distance on Earth is a sphere. Line edges are [geodesics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geodesic) on the sphere.
> * Azimuth 0 points north. Azimuth Pi/2 points east. Azimuth Pi points south. Azimuth 3Pi/2 points west.
> * If the coordinates are invalid, the query will produce a null result.
> * If point1 is equal to point2, the query will produce a null result.
> * If point1 and point2 are antipodal, the query will produce a null result.

## Examples

The following example calculates azimuth in radians.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAysoyswrUUisyswtLcmIz8yLL0pMyUzMK1awVUhPzY%2BHSmiY6igYGkCwromBJgCWKj32NgAAAA%3D%3D" target="_blank">Run the query</a>
```kusto
print azimuth_in_radians = geo_azimuth(5, 10, 10, -40)
```

**Output**

|azimuth_in_radians|
|---|
|3.05459939796449|


The following example calculates azimuth in degrees.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA8tJLVFIrMrMLS3JiM%2FMiy9KTMlMzCtWsFVIT82Ph0pomOooGBpAsK6JgaY1L1dBUWYeisaU1PSi1FSQRihLA9NUTWsA0SMJ2G4AAAA%3D" target="_blank">Run the query</a>
```kusto
let azimuth_in_radians = geo_azimuth(5, 10, 10, -40);
print azimuth_in_degrees = degrees(azimuth_in_radians);
```

**Output**

|azimuth_in_degrees|
|---|
|175.015653606568|

Consider a truck that emits telemetry of its location while it travels and we would like to know the direction.

:::image type="content" source="images/geo-azimuth-function/azimuth.png" alt-text="Azimuth between two consecutive locations.":::

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA4WUyW7bMBCG734KIiepkFMOlyHpNMdee2mBAi0Cg3GYWK28QGaaru%2FeX7LsdBFsyQd6%2BM83C8VpUhYPKc%2Fv6jYtcr1Zi2tRxO%2F16jEvZ22KTTn5MRF4Ggi3NXa3dVFe9ab6%2Fv4gFa9gf6kqWC%2FebNq8nL6Ou3xRjeo6FXRvN4%2BndPrFnjjo3qejbvwZ4va6skSKv64mdzHjvW1SkesVNuJqO4Mtdf8q0awf%2BhKxinko9mMf4aAplFRmKgm%2Fd1LOJM2svpTGW8kfykpMieylkZpZOg7akKuEZlisJdYkDSum6iRRjRC1suxBVBpvTwRaKjLKsSQ6Q9QjROW0UkEyILQnKm%2BsD2S8CgFpnySaMaIlTR4pakD2RCSsdDDMRlt1mmjHiPBC41hrdcjRWWOtcVJ7S%2FY0kUeI5INB53Aw3vJQteLuoIwmdmf66MaI0sLVE3nDfiAG66S3Xc18po9%2BhCjZeCaDNhrSA5FIOqMVdO5MH8N%2FRHMZvPUS3uycHqoOzksObGVwOKxTRJJjREnwZovzwOfcf4%2BMg6LAnrRlriY3k59ih%2Bsnbr%2BJ400TcbcQ2Ehfc1rfiW2bvsxx5boRgmWBJQLsrTEfrTGX8HlapjaJerfe5PVj0xQH51JEoP61732GOH9Osr8mW%2FGQNvNhvhyBzxn086AfBWVH27abT%2FB7xj3vY7dFpNSK3SLmnNrFMqL2pxpzq%2FhcI4drsYrb8je1JEbnXAUAAA%3D%3D" target="_blank">Run the query</a>
```kusto
let get_direction = (azimuth:real)
{
    let pi = pi();
    iff(azimuth < pi/2,   "North-East",
    iff(azimuth < pi,     "South-East",
    iff(azimuth < 3*pi/2, "South-West",
                          "North-West")));
};
datatable(timestamp:datetime, lng:real, lat:real)
[
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:01:53.048506Z), -115.4036607693417, 36.40551631046261,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:02:53.048506Z), -115.3256807623232, 36.34102142760111,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:03:53.048506Z), -115.2732290602112, 36.28458914829917,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:04:53.048506Z), -115.2513186233914, 36.27622394664352,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:05:53.048506Z), -115.2352055633212, 36.27545547038515,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:06:53.048506Z), -115.1894341934856, 36.28266934431671,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:07:53.048506Z), -115.1054318118468, 36.28957085435267,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:08:53.048506Z), -115.0648614339413, 36.28110743285072,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:09:53.048506Z), -114.9858032867736, 36.29780696509714,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:10:53.048506Z), -114.9016966527561, 36.36556196813566,
]
| sort by timestamp asc 
| extend prev_lng = prev(lng), prev_lat = prev(lat)
| where isnotnull(prev_lng) and isnotnull(prev_lat)
| extend direction = get_direction(geo_azimuth(prev_lng, prev_lat, lng, lat))
| project direction, lng, lat
| render scatterchart with (kind = map)
```

The following example returns null because 1st point equals to 2nd point.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAysoyswrUcgsjs8rzclRsAWyQAyN9NT8%2BMSqzNzSkgwNUx0FQwMdBTClqQkAkB%2FPgDEAAAA%3D" target="_blank">Run the query</a>
```kusto
print is_null = isnull(geo_azimuth(5, 10, 5, 10))
```

**Output**

|is_null|
|---|
|True|

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/query/geo-azimuth-function.md, after:

---
title:  geo_azimuth()
description: Learn how to use the geo_azimuth() function to calculate the angle between the true north and a line on Earth.
ms.reviewer: mbrichko
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 01/05/2024
---
# geo_azimuth()

Calculates clockwise angle in radians between the line from point1 to true north and a line from point1 to point2 on Earth.

## Syntax

`geo_azimuth(`*p1_longitude*`,`*p1_latitude*`,`*p2_longitude*`,`*p2_latitude*`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
|*p1_longitude*| real |  :heavy_check_mark: | The longitude value in degrees of the first geospatial coordinate. A valid value is in the range [-180, +180].|
|*p1_latitude*| real |  :heavy_check_mark: | The latitude value in degrees of the first geospatial coordinate. A valid value is in the range [-90, +90].|
|*p2_longitude*| real |  :heavy_check_mark: | The longitude value in degrees of the second geospatial coordinate. A valid value is in the range [-180, +180].|
|*p2_latitude*| real |  :heavy_check_mark: | The latitude value in degrees of the second geospatial coordinate. A valid value is in the range [-90, +90].|

## Returns

An angle in radians between the line from point p1 to true north and line [p1, p2]. The angle is measured CW.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * The geospatial coordinates are interpreted as represented by the [WGS-84](https://earth-info.nga.mil/index.php?dir=wgs84&action=wgs84) coordinate reference system.
> * The [geodetic datum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geodetic_datum) used to measure distance on Earth is a sphere. Line edges are [geodesics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geodesic) on the sphere.
> * Azimuth 0 points north. Azimuth Pi/2 points east. Azimuth Pi points south. Azimuth 3Pi/2 points west.
> * If the coordinates are invalid, the query will produce a null result.
> * If point1 is equal to point2, the query will produce a null result.
> * If point1 and point2 are antipodal, the query will produce a null result.

## Examples

The following example calculates azimuth in radians.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAysoyswrUUisyswtLcmIz8yLL0pMyUzMK1awVUhPzY%2BHSmiY6igYGkCwromBJgCWKj32NgAAAA%3D%3D" target="_blank">Run the query</a>
```kusto
print azimuth_in_radians = geo_azimuth(5, 10, 10, -40)
```

**Output**

|azimuth_in_radians|
|---|
|3.05459939796449|


The following example calculates azimuth in degrees.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA8tJLVFIrMrMLS3JiM%2FMiy9KTMlMzCtWsFVIT82Ph0pomOooGBpAsK6JgaY1L1dBUWYeisaU1PSi1FSQRihLA9NUTWsA0SMJ2G4AAAA%3D" target="_blank">Run the query</a>
```kusto
let azimuth_in_radians = geo_azimuth(5, 10, 10, -40);
print azimuth_in_degrees = degrees(azimuth_in_radians);
```

**Output**

|azimuth_in_degrees|
|---|
|175.015653606568|

Consider a truck that emits telemetry of its location while it travels and we would like to know the direction.

:::image type="content" source="images/geo-azimuth-function/azimuth.png" alt-text="Azimuth between two consecutive locations.":::

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA4WUyW7bMBCG734KIiepkFMOlyHpNMdee2mBAi0Cg3GYWK28QGaaru%2FeX7LsdBFsyQd6%2BM83C8VpUhYPKc%2Fv6jYtcr1Zi2tRxO%2F16jEvZ22KTTn5MRF4Ggi3NXa3dVFe9ab6%2Fv4gFa9gf6kqWC%2FebNq8nL6Ou3xRjeo6FXRvN4%2BndPrFnjjo3qejbvwZ4va6skSKv64mdzHjvW1SkesVNuJqO4Mtdf8q0awf%2BhKxinko9mMf4aAplFRmKgm%2Fd1LOJM2svpTGW8kfykpMieylkZpZOg7akKuEZlisJdYkDSum6iRRjRC1suxBVBpvTwRaKjLKsSQ6Q9QjROW0UkEyILQnKm%2BsD2S8CgFpnySaMaIlTR4pakD2RCSsdDDMRlt1mmjHiPBC41hrdcjRWWOtcVJ7S%2FY0kUeI5INB53Aw3vJQteLuoIwmdmf66MaI0sLVE3nDfiAG66S3Xc18po9%2BhCjZeCaDNhrSA5FIOqMVdO5MH8N%2FRHMZvPUS3uycHqoOzksObGVwOKxTRJJjREnwZovzwOfcf4%2BMg6LAnrRlriY3k59ih%2Bsnbr%2BJ400TcbcQ2Ehfc1rfiW2bvsxx5boRgmWBJQLsrTEfrTGX8HlapjaJerfe5PVj0xQH51JEoP61732GOH9Osr8mW%2FGQNvNhvhyBzxn086AfBWVH27abT%2FB7xj3vY7dFpNSK3SLmnNrFMqL2pxpzq%2FhcI4drsYrb8je1JEbnXAUAAA%3D%3D" target="_blank">Run the query</a>
```kusto
let get_direction = (azimuth:real)
{
    let pi = pi();
    iff(azimuth < pi/2,   "North-East",
    iff(azimuth < pi,     "South-East",
    iff(azimuth < 3*pi/2, "South-West",
                          "North-West")));
};
datatable(timestamp:datetime, lng:real, lat:real)
[
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:01:53.048506Z), -115.4036607693417, 36.40551631046261,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:02:53.048506Z), -115.3256807623232, 36.34102142760111,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:03:53.048506Z), -115.2732290602112, 36.28458914829917,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:04:53.048506Z), -115.2513186233914, 36.27622394664352,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:05:53.048506Z), -115.2352055633212, 36.27545547038515,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:06:53.048506Z), -115.1894341934856, 36.28266934431671,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:07:53.048506Z), -115.1054318118468, 36.28957085435267,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:08:53.048506Z), -115.0648614339413, 36.28110743285072,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:09:53.048506Z), -114.9858032867736, 36.29780696509714,
    datetime(2024-01-01T00:10:53.048506Z), -114.9016966527561, 36.36556196813566,
]
| sort by timestamp asc 
| extend prev_lng = prev(lng), prev_lat = prev(lat)
| where isnotnull(prev_lng) and isnotnull(prev_lat)
| extend direction = get_direction(geo_azimuth(prev_lng, prev_lat, lng, lat))
| project direction, lng, lat
| render scatterchart with (kind = map)
```

The following example returns null because 1st point equals to 2nd point.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAysoyswrUcgsjs8rzclRsAWyQAyN9NT8%2BMSqzNzSkgwNUx0FQwMdBTClqQkAkB%2FPgDEAAAA%3D" target="_blank">Run the query</a>
```kusto
print is_null = isnull(geo_azimuth(5, 10, 5, 10))
```

**Output**

|is_null|
|---|
|True|
