data-explorer/kusto/query/has-anyoperator.md, before:

---
title:  The case-insensitive has_any string operator
description: Learn how to use the has_any operator to filter data with any set of case-insensitive strings.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/29/2023
---
# has_any operator

Filters a record set for data with any set of case-insensitive strings. `has_any` searches for indexed terms, where an indexed [term](datatypes-string-operators.md#what-is-a-term) is three or more characters. If your term is fewer than three characters, the query scans the values in the column, which is slower than looking up the term in the term index.

For more information about other operators and to determine which operator is most appropriate for your query, see [datatype string operators](datatypes-string-operators.md).

## Syntax

*T* `|` `where` *col* `has_any` `(`*expression*`,` ... `)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *T* | string | &check; | The tabular input to filter.|
| *col* | string | &check; | The column by which to filter.|
| *expression* | scalar or tabular | &check; | An expression that specifies the values for which to search. Each expression can be a [scalar](scalar-data-types/index.md) value or a [tabular expression](tabularexpressionstatements.md) that produces a set of values. If a tabular expression has multiple columns, the first column is used. The search will consider up to 10,000 distinct values.|

> [!NOTE]
> An inline tabular expression must be enclosed with double parentheses. See [example](#tabular-expression).

## Returns

Rows in *T* for which the predicate is `true`.

## Examples

### List of scalars

The following query shows how to use `has_any` with a comma-separated list of scalar values.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuDlqlEoz0gtSlUILkksSVXISCyOT8yrVNBQcnYM8vfx9HNU0lFQcnH09g8Bs/xcw5U0wbqKS3NzE4syq1IVkvNL80o0NBWSKiGGAACHltT/YAAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State has_any ("CAROLINA", "DAKOTA", "NEW") 
| summarize count() by State
```

**Output**

|State|count_|
|---|---|
|NEW YORK|1750|
|NORTH CAROLINA|1721|
|SOUTH DAKOTA|1567|
|NEW JERSEY|1044|
|SOUTH CAROLINA|915|
|NORTH DAKOTA|905|
|NEW MEXICO|527|
|NEW HAMPSHIRE|394|

### Dynamic array

The following query shows how to use `has_any` with a dynamic array.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuDlqlEoz0gtSlUILkksSVXISCyOT8yrVNBIqcxLzM1M1ohWL84vLclQ11FQz8svAjJiNTVBmopLc3MTizKrUhWS80vzSjQ0FZIqIWYAAIx5b2ZfAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State has_any (dynamic(['south', 'north']))
| summarize count() by State
```

**Output**

|State|count_|
|---|---|
|NORTH CAROLINA|1721|
|SOUTH DAKOTA|1567|
|SOUTH CAROLINA|915|
|NORTH DAKOTA|905|
|ATLANTIC SOUTH|193|
|ATLANTIC NORTH|188|

The same query can also be written with a [let statement](letstatement.md).

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAyWMQQrCMBBF9z3F3yUBbyBdeoIuRWRsB1IwE5iZtER6eIvuHrzHe7ODlMkwYulCZZ3jPVhtnsMFQaqe8EjXYfKq5baxuGE4sGdWxuTkjEz2JOmIv1E6rbVSSNcPY65NPCa8+j/+AmgCW+9wAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let areas = dynamic(['south', 'north']);
StormEvents 
| where State has_any (areas)
| summarize count() by State
```

**Output**

|State|count_|
|---|---|
|NORTH CAROLINA|1721|
|SOUTH DAKOTA|1567|
|SOUTH CAROLINA|915|
|NORTH DAKOTA|905|
|ATLANTIC SOUTH|193|
|ATLANTIC NORTH|188|

### Tabular expression

The following query shows how to use `has_any` with an inline tabular expression. Notice that an inline tabular expression must be enclosed with double parentheses.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuDlqlEoz0gtSlUILkksSVXISCyOT8yrVNDQCMgvKM1JLMnMz3NJLElUgClDCCvYKZgagAFQsqAoPys1uQRiiqYmyNji0tzcxKLMqlSF5PzSvBINTYWkSog8AMlS+PGBAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State has_any ((PopulationData | where Population > 5000000 | project State))
| summarize count() by State
```

**Output**

|State|count_|
|--|--|
|TEXAS |4701|
|ILLINOIS |2022|
|MISSOURI |2016|
|GEORGIA |1983|
|MINNESOTA |1881|
|...|...|

The same query can also be written with a [let statement](letstatement.md). Notice that the double parentheses as provided in the last example aren't necessary in this case.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA02NsQrCQBBE+0D+Ycqks7ESrbQX8gFhDYuJ3N2G3b1IxI/XRIRMOW8eE9gRSO/cmpOz4YirjDmQD5LO5IQ3nj0rb2qcsN+t+cJR5cGdo1n0Q1k0LhovEyc3lMVfXil6spbSjGr7WC8ryzGSDi9GJzl5VeM2/6QPjBKdkqEAAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let large_states = PopulationData | where Population > 5000000 | project State;
StormEvents 
| where State has_any (large_states)
| summarize count() by State
```

**Output**

|State|count_|
|--|--|
|TEXAS |4701|
|ILLINOIS |2022|
|MISSOURI |2016|
|GEORGIA |1983|
|MINNESOTA |1881|
|...|...|

Commit message:

Add 2048 performance guidance on has-anyoperator.md

data-explorer/kusto/query/has-anyoperator.md, after:

---
title:  The case-insensitive has_any string operator
description: Learn how to use the has_any operator to filter data with any set of case-insensitive strings.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/29/2023
---
# has_any operator

Filters a record set for data with any set of case-insensitive strings. `has_any` searches for indexed terms, where an indexed [term](datatypes-string-operators.md#what-is-a-term) is three or more characters. If your term is fewer than three characters, the query scans the values in the column, which is slower than looking up the term in the term index.

For more information about other operators and to determine which operator is most appropriate for your query, see [datatype string operators](datatypes-string-operators.md).

## Syntax

*T* `|` `where` *col* `has_any` `(`*expression*`,` ... `)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *T* | string | &check; | The tabular input to filter.|
| *col* | string | &check; | The column by which to filter.|
| *expression* | scalar or tabular | &check; | An expression that specifies the values for which to search. Each expression can be a [scalar](scalar-data-types/index.md) value or a [tabular expression](tabularexpressionstatements.md) that produces a set of values. If a tabular expression has multiple columns, the first column is used. The search will consider up to 10,000 distinct values.|

> [!WARNING]
> For optimal performance, please stay within 2048 values. From 2049 values onwards, has_any() internally rewrites itself as regex.

> [!NOTE]
> An inline tabular expression must be enclosed with double parentheses. See [example](#tabular-expression).

## Returns

Rows in *T* for which the predicate is `true`.

## Examples

### List of scalars

The following query shows how to use `has_any` with a comma-separated list of scalar values.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuDlqlEoz0gtSlUILkksSVXISCyOT8yrVNBQcnYM8vfx9HNU0lFQcnH09g8Bs/xcw5U0wbqKS3NzE4syq1IVkvNL80o0NBWSKiGGAACHltT/YAAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State has_any ("CAROLINA", "DAKOTA", "NEW") 
| summarize count() by State
```

**Output**

|State|count_|
|---|---|
|NEW YORK|1750|
|NORTH CAROLINA|1721|
|SOUTH DAKOTA|1567|
|NEW JERSEY|1044|
|SOUTH CAROLINA|915|
|NORTH DAKOTA|905|
|NEW MEXICO|527|
|NEW HAMPSHIRE|394|

### Dynamic array

The following query shows how to use `has_any` with a dynamic array.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuDlqlEoz0gtSlUILkksSVXISCyOT8yrVNBIqcxLzM1M1ohWL84vLclQ11FQz8svAjJiNTVBmopLc3MTizKrUhWS80vzSjQ0FZIqIWYAAIx5b2ZfAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State has_any (dynamic(['south', 'north']))
| summarize count() by State
```

**Output**

|State|count_|
|---|---|
|NORTH CAROLINA|1721|
|SOUTH DAKOTA|1567|
|SOUTH CAROLINA|915|
|NORTH DAKOTA|905|
|ATLANTIC SOUTH|193|
|ATLANTIC NORTH|188|

The same query can also be written with a [let statement](letstatement.md).

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAyWMQQrCMBBF9z3F3yUBbyBdeoIuRWRsB1IwE5iZtER6eIvuHrzHe7ODlMkwYulCZZ3jPVhtnsMFQaqe8EjXYfKq5baxuGE4sGdWxuTkjEz2JOmIv1E6rbVSSNcPY65NPCa8+j/+AmgCW+9wAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let areas = dynamic(['south', 'north']);
StormEvents 
| where State has_any (areas)
| summarize count() by State
```

**Output**

|State|count_|
|---|---|
|NORTH CAROLINA|1721|
|SOUTH DAKOTA|1567|
|SOUTH CAROLINA|915|
|NORTH DAKOTA|905|
|ATLANTIC SOUTH|193|
|ATLANTIC NORTH|188|

### Tabular expression

The following query shows how to use `has_any` with an inline tabular expression. Notice that an inline tabular expression must be enclosed with double parentheses.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuDlqlEoz0gtSlUILkksSVXISCyOT8yrVNDQCMgvKM1JLMnMz3NJLElUgClDCCvYKZgagAFQsqAoPys1uQRiiqYmyNji0tzcxKLMqlSF5PzSvBINTYWkSog8AMlS+PGBAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State has_any ((PopulationData | where Population > 5000000 | project State))
| summarize count() by State
```

**Output**

|State|count_|
|--|--|
|TEXAS |4701|
|ILLINOIS |2022|
|MISSOURI |2016|
|GEORGIA |1983|
|MINNESOTA |1881|
|...|...|

The same query can also be written with a [let statement](letstatement.md). Notice that the double parentheses as provided in the last example aren't necessary in this case.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA02NsQrCQBBE+0D+Ycqks7ESrbQX8gFhDYuJ3N2G3b1IxI/XRIRMOW8eE9gRSO/cmpOz4YirjDmQD5LO5IQ3nj0rb2qcsN+t+cJR5cGdo1n0Q1k0LhovEyc3lMVfXil6spbSjGr7WC8ryzGSDi9GJzl5VeM2/6QPjBKdkqEAAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let large_states = PopulationData | where Population > 5000000 | project State;
StormEvents 
| where State has_any (large_states)
| summarize count() by State
```

**Output**

|State|count_|
|--|--|
|TEXAS |4701|
|ILLINOIS |2022|
|MISSOURI |2016|
|GEORGIA |1983|
|MINNESOTA |1881|
|...|...|
