data-explorer/kusto/query/in-cs-operator.md, before:

---
title:  The case-sensitive in string operator
description: Learn how to use the in operator to filter data with a case-sensitive string.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/29/2023
---
# in operator

Filters a record set for data with a case-sensitive string.

[!INCLUDE [in-operator-comparison](../../includes/in-operator-comparison.md)]

## Performance tips

[!INCLUDE [performance-tip-note](../../includes/performance-tip-note.md)]

## Syntax

*T* `|` `where` *col* `in` `(`*expression*`,` ... `)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *T* | string | &check; | The tabular input to filter.|
| *col* | string | &check; | The column by which to filter.|
| *expression* | scalar or tabular | &check; | An expression that specifies the values for which to search. the values for which to search. Each expression can be a [scalar](scalar-data-types/index.md) value or a [tabular expression](tabular-expression-statements.md) that produces a set of values. If a tabular expression has multiple columns, the first column is used. The search will consider up to 1,000,000 distinct values.|

> [!NOTE]
> An inline tabular expression must be enclosed with double parentheses. See [example](#tabular-expression).

## Returns

Rows in *T* for which the predicate is `true`.

## Examples  

### List of scalars

The following query shows how to use `in` with a list of scalar values.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuCqUSjPSC1KVQguSSxJVcjMU9BQcvPxD/J0cVTSUVByd/UPcvcEM/1cwxUi/YO8lTRBmpLzS/NKAJNAy9pJAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State in ("FLORIDA", "GEORGIA", "NEW YORK") 
| count
```

**Output**

|Count|
|---|
|4775|  

### Dynamic array

The following query shows how to use `in` with a dynamic array.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA8tJLVEoLkksSS1WsFVIqcxLzM1M1ohWd/PxD/J0cVTXUVB3DPFx9AvxdFYI9g8N8QCJuLv6B7l7OqrHalpzBZfkF+W6lqXmlRQrcNUolGekFqUqBIMMVMjMU9CAGK0JlEnOL80rAQDj7kmUbgAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let states = dynamic(['FLORIDA', 'ATLANTIC SOUTH', 'GEORGIA']);
StormEvents 
| where State in (states)
| count
```

**Output**

|Count|
|---|
|3218|

### Tabular expression

The following query shows how to use `in` with a tabular expression.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA8tJLVEIyS+IN40PLkksSS1WsFXg5VIAguCS/KJc17LUvJJiiECNQnFpbm5iUWZVqkJyfmleiYamQlKlAlgbTEVJfoGCKUgUrCDeGmgWkjlAXo1CeUZqUSpEl0JmnoIGsuWaYBVgvQBWFNNCmAAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Top_5_States = 
    StormEvents
    | summarize count() by State
    | top 5 by count_; 
StormEvents 
| where State in (Top_5_States) 
| count
```

The same query can be written with an inline tabular expression statement.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuDlqlEoz0gtSlUILkksSVXIzFPQ0ODlUgCCYIQyiECNQnFpbm5iUWZVqkJyfmleiYamQlIlRCNMRUl+gYIpSBSsIB4irKkJtgcsBAD4wHSifQAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State in (
    StormEvents
    | summarize count() by State
    | top 5 by count_
    ) 
| count
```

**Output**

|Count|
|---|
|14242|  

### Top with other example

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA22PPQuDMBCG9/yKFxcVXJ3EpdCt0EF3sfaqKZpIPEst/vhGpVZqs+Tg7nk/amKcZFmxkqrMDkOWcM6EGI39jMxr+SIvYW2a44MUdwL2jej6psmN3aFeYZoPLFroXrG8eTORDq2Vi+GuLq6Py4DZx49EbQOkus3CxXni/+QZwbpFOIE7wxGt0XcqeNGMIPYCYgQ9mdQVn37SBlxmqeBtE/jBchTAOXNFxvHFtrCdvN8M30ZvE2wmM1ABAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Lightning_By_State = materialize(StormEvents
    | summarize lightning_events = countif(EventType == 'Lightning') by State);
let Top_5_States = Lightning_By_State | top 5 by lightning_events | project State; 
Lightning_By_State
| extend State = iff(State in (Top_5_States), State, "Other")
| summarize sum(lightning_events) by State 
```

**Output**

| State     | sum_lightning_events |
|-----------|----------------------|
| ALABAMA   | 29                   |
| WISCONSIN | 31                   |
| TEXAS     | 55                   |
| FLORIDA   | 85                   |
| GEORGIA   | 106                  |
| Other     | 415                  |

### Use a static list returned by a function

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuCqUSjPSC1KVQguSSxJVcjMU9DwzCsBChSXZOalgwWLNTQ1QeqS80vzSgAtnqHrPAAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State in (InterestingStates()) 
| count
```

**Output**

|Count|
|---|
|4775|  

The function definition.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA9MrzsgvV0grzUsuyczPU/DMK0ktSi0uycxLDy5JLEktBgBVrDk7IAAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
.show function InterestingStates
```

**Output**

|Name|Parameters|Body|Folder|DocString|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|InterestingStates|()|{ dynamic(["WASHINGTON", "FLORIDA", "GEORGIA", "NEW YORK"]) }

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/query/in-cs-operator.md, after:

---
title:  The case-sensitive in string operator
description: Learn how to use the in operator to filter data with a case-sensitive string.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/29/2023
---
# in operator

Filters a record set for data with a case-sensitive string.

[!INCLUDE [in-operator-comparison](../../includes/in-operator-comparison.md)]

## Performance tips

[!INCLUDE [performance-tip-note](../../includes/performance-tip-note.md)]

## Syntax

*T* `|` `where` *col* `in` `(`*expression*`,` ... `)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *T* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The tabular input to filter.|
| *col* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The column by which to filter.|
| *expression* | scalar or tabular |  :heavy_check_mark: | An expression that specifies the values for which to search. the values for which to search. Each expression can be a [scalar](scalar-data-types/index.md) value or a [tabular expression](tabular-expression-statements.md) that produces a set of values. If a tabular expression has multiple columns, the first column is used. The search will consider up to 1,000,000 distinct values.|

> [!NOTE]
> An inline tabular expression must be enclosed with double parentheses. See [example](#tabular-expression).

## Returns

Rows in *T* for which the predicate is `true`.

## Examples  

### List of scalars

The following query shows how to use `in` with a list of scalar values.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuCqUSjPSC1KVQguSSxJVcjMU9BQcvPxD/J0cVTSUVByd/UPcvcEM/1cwxUi/YO8lTRBmpLzS/NKAJNAy9pJAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State in ("FLORIDA", "GEORGIA", "NEW YORK") 
| count
```

**Output**

|Count|
|---|
|4775|  

### Dynamic array

The following query shows how to use `in` with a dynamic array.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA8tJLVEoLkksSS1WsFVIqcxLzM1M1ohWd/PxD/J0cVTXUVB3DPFx9AvxdFYI9g8N8QCJuLv6B7l7OqrHalpzBZfkF+W6lqXmlRQrcNUolGekFqUqBIMMVMjMU9CAGK0JlEnOL80rAQDj7kmUbgAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let states = dynamic(['FLORIDA', 'ATLANTIC SOUTH', 'GEORGIA']);
StormEvents 
| where State in (states)
| count
```

**Output**

|Count|
|---|
|3218|

### Tabular expression

The following query shows how to use `in` with a tabular expression.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA8tJLVEIyS+IN40PLkksSS1WsFXg5VIAguCS/KJc17LUvJJiiECNQnFpbm5iUWZVqkJyfmleiYamQlKlAlgbTEVJfoGCKUgUrCDeGmgWkjlAXo1CeUZqUSpEl0JmnoIGsuWaYBVgvQBWFNNCmAAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Top_5_States = 
    StormEvents
    | summarize count() by State
    | top 5 by count_; 
StormEvents 
| where State in (Top_5_States) 
| count
```

The same query can be written with an inline tabular expression statement.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuDlqlEoz0gtSlUILkksSVXIzFPQ0ODlUgCCYIQyiECNQnFpbm5iUWZVqkJyfmleiYamQlIlRCNMRUl+gYIpSBSsIB4irKkJtgcsBAD4wHSifQAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State in (
    StormEvents
    | summarize count() by State
    | top 5 by count_
    ) 
| count
```

**Output**

|Count|
|---|
|14242|  

### Top with other example

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA22PPQuDMBCG9/yKFxcVXJ3EpdCt0EF3sfaqKZpIPEst/vhGpVZqs+Tg7nk/amKcZFmxkqrMDkOWcM6EGI39jMxr+SIvYW2a44MUdwL2jej6psmN3aFeYZoPLFroXrG8eTORDq2Vi+GuLq6Py4DZx49EbQOkus3CxXni/+QZwbpFOIE7wxGt0XcqeNGMIPYCYgQ9mdQVn37SBlxmqeBtE/jBchTAOXNFxvHFtrCdvN8M30ZvE2wmM1ABAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Lightning_By_State = materialize(StormEvents
    | summarize lightning_events = countif(EventType == 'Lightning') by State);
let Top_5_States = Lightning_By_State | top 5 by lightning_events | project State; 
Lightning_By_State
| extend State = iff(State in (Top_5_States), State, "Other")
| summarize sum(lightning_events) by State 
```

**Output**

| State     | sum_lightning_events |
|-----------|----------------------|
| ALABAMA   | 29                   |
| WISCONSIN | 31                   |
| TEXAS     | 55                   |
| FLORIDA   | 85                   |
| GEORGIA   | 106                  |
| Other     | 415                  |

### Use a static list returned by a function

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSspVuCqUSjPSC1KVQguSSxJVcjMU9DwzCsBChSXZOalgwWLNTQ1QeqS80vzSgAtnqHrPAAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents 
| where State in (InterestingStates()) 
| count
```

**Output**

|Count|
|---|
|4775|  

The function definition.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA9MrzsgvV0grzUsuyczPU/DMK0ktSi0uycxLDy5JLEktBgBVrDk7IAAAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
.show function InterestingStates
```

**Output**

|Name|Parameters|Body|Folder|DocString|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|InterestingStates|()|{ dynamic(["WASHINGTON", "FLORIDA", "GEORGIA", "NEW YORK"]) }
