data-explorer/kusto/query/joinoperator.md, before:

---
title:  join operator
description: Learn how to use the join operator to merge the rows of two tables. 
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 08/15/2023
ms.localizationpriority: high 
zone_pivot_group_filename: data-explorer/zone-pivot-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: kql-flavors-all
---
# join operator

Merge the rows of two tables to form a new table by matching values of the specified columns from each table.

Kusto Query Language (KQL) offers many kinds of joins that each affect the schema and rows in the resultant table in different ways. For example, if you use an `inner` join, the table has the same columns as the left table, plus the columns from the right table. For best performance, if one table is always smaller than the other, use it as the left side of the `join` operator. The following image provides a visual representation of the operation performed by each join.

:::image type="content" source="images/joinoperator/join-kinds.png" alt-text="Diagram showing query join kinds.":::

To learn more about multi-table queries, complete the [Write multi-table queries using KQL](/training/modules/multi-table-queries-with-kusto-query-language/) training module.

## Syntax

*LeftTable* `|` `join` [ `kind` `=` *JoinFlavor* ] [ *Hints* ] `(`*RightTable*`)` `on` *Conditions*

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
|*LeftTable*|string|&check;|The left table or tabular expression, sometimes called the outer table, whose rows are to be merged. Denoted as `$left`.|
|*JoinFlavor*|string||The type of join to perform: `innerunique`, `inner`, `leftouter`, `rightouter`, `fullouter`, `leftanti`, `rightanti`, `leftsemi`, `rightsemi`. The default is `innerunique`. For more information about join flavors, see [Returns](#returns).|
|*Hints*|string||Zero or more space-separated join hints in the form of *Name* `=` *Value* that control the behavior of the row-match operation and execution plan. For more information, see [Hints](#hints).
|*RightTable*|string|&check;|The right table or tabular expression, sometimes called the inner table, whose rows are to be merged. Denoted as `$right`.|
|*Conditions*|string|&check;|Determines how rows from *LeftTable* are matched with rows from *RightTable*. If the columns you want to match have the same name in both tables, use the syntax `ON` *ColumnName*. Otherwise, use the syntax `ON $left.`*LeftColumn* `==` `$right.`*RightColumn*. To specify multiple conditions, you can either use the "and" keyword or separate them with commas. If you use commas, the conditions are evaluated using the "and" logical operator.|

> [!TIP]
> For best performance, if one table is always smaller than the other, use it as the left side of the join.

### Hints

::: zone pivot="azuredataexplorer, fabric"

|Hint key |Values |Description  |
|---|---|---|
|`hint.remote`  |`auto`, `left`, `local`, `right` |See [Cross-Cluster Join](joincrosscluster.md)|
|`hint.strategy=broadcast` |Specifies the way to share the query load on cluster nodes. |See [broadcast join](broadcastjoin.md) |
|`hint.shufflekey=<key>` |The `shufflekey` query shares the query load on cluster nodes, using a key to partition data. |See [shuffle query](shufflequery.md) |
|`hint.strategy=shuffle` |The `shuffle` strategy query shares the query load on cluster nodes, where each node processes one partition of the data. |See [shuffle query](shufflequery.md)  |

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="azuremonitor"

|Name |Values |Description |
|---|---|---|
|`hint.remote`  |`auto`, `left`, `local`, `right`   | |
|`hint.strategy=broadcast` |Specifies the way to share the query load on cluster nodes. |See [broadcast join](broadcastjoin.md) |
|`hint.shufflekey=<key>` |The `shufflekey` query shares the query load on cluster nodes, using a key to partition data. |See [shuffle query](shufflequery.md) |
|`hint.strategy=shuffle` |The `shuffle` strategy query shares the query load on cluster nodes, where each node processes one partition of the data. |See [shuffle query](shufflequery.md)  |

::: zone-end

> [!NOTE]
> The join hints don't change the semantic of `join` but may affect performance.

## Returns

The return schema and rows depend on the join flavor. The join flavor is specified with the *kind* keyword. The following flavors of the join operator are supported:

| Join flavor | Returns | Illustration |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [innerunique](join-innerunique.md) (default) | Inner join with left side deduplication<br />**Schema**: All columns from both tables, including the matching keys<br />**Rows**: All deduplicated rows from the left table that match rows from the right table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-innerunique.png" border="false"::: |
| [inner](join-inner.md) | Standard inner join<br />**Schema**: All columns from both tables, including the matching keys<br />**Rows**: Only matching rows from both tables | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-inner.png" border="false"::: |
| [leftouter](join-leftouter.md) | Left outer join<br />**Schema**: All columns from both tables, including the matching keys<br />**Rows**: All records from the left table and only matching rows from the right table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-leftouter.png" border="false"::: |
| [rightouter](join-rightouter.md) | Right outer join<br />**Schema**: All columns from both tables, including the matching keys<br />**Rows**: All records from the right table and only matching rows from the left table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-rightouter.png" border="false"::: |
| [fullouter](join-fullouter.md) | Full outer join<br />**Schema**: All columns from both tables, including the matching keys<br />**Rows**: All records from both tables with unmatched cells populated with null | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-fullouter.png" border="false"::: |
| [leftsemi](join-leftsemi.md) | Left semi join<br />**Schema**: All columns from the left table<br />**Rows**: All records from the left table that match records from the right table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-leftsemi.png" border="false"::: |
| [`leftanti`, `anti`, `leftantisemi`](join-leftanti.md) | Left anti join and semi variant<br />**Schema**: All columns from the left table<br />**Rows**: All records from the left table that don't match records from the right table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-leftanti.png" border="false"::: |
| [rightsemi](join-rightsemi.md) | Right semi join<br />**Schema**: All columns from the right table<br />**Rows**: All records from the right table that match records from the left table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-rightsemi.png" border="false"::: |
| [`rightanti`, `rightantisemi`](join-rightanti.md) | Right anti join and semi variant<br />**Schema**: All columns from the right table<br />**Rows**: All records from the right table that don't match records from the left table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-rightanti.png" border="false"::: |

### Cross-join

KQL doesn't provide a cross-join flavor. However, you can achieve a cross-join effect by using a placeholder key approach.

In the following example, a placeholder key is added to both tables and then used for the inner join operation, effectively achieving a cross-join-like behavior:

`X | extend placeholder=1 | join kind=inner (Y | extend placeholder=1) on placeholder`

## See also

* [Cross-cluster join](joincrosscluster.md)
* [Broadcast join](broadcastjoin.md)
* [Shuffle query](shufflequery.md)

Commit message:

add link for example in return table

data-explorer/kusto/query/joinoperator.md, after:

---
title:  join operator
description: Learn how to use the join operator to merge the rows of two tables. 
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 08/15/2023
ms.localizationpriority: high 
zone_pivot_group_filename: data-explorer/zone-pivot-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: kql-flavors-all
---
# join operator

Merge the rows of two tables to form a new table by matching values of the specified columns from each table.

Kusto Query Language (KQL) offers many kinds of joins that each affect the schema and rows in the resultant table in different ways. For example, if you use an `inner` join, the table has the same columns as the left table, plus the columns from the right table. For best performance, if one table is always smaller than the other, use it as the left side of the `join` operator. The following image provides a visual representation of the operation performed by each join.

:::image type="content" source="images/joinoperator/join-kinds.png" alt-text="Diagram showing query join kinds.":::

To learn more about multi-table queries, complete the [Write multi-table queries using KQL](/training/modules/multi-table-queries-with-kusto-query-language/) training module.

## Syntax

*LeftTable* `|` `join` [ `kind` `=` *JoinFlavor* ] [ *Hints* ] `(`*RightTable*`)` `on` *Conditions*

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
|*LeftTable*|string|&check;|The left table or tabular expression, sometimes called the outer table, whose rows are to be merged. Denoted as `$left`.|
|*JoinFlavor*|string||The type of join to perform: `innerunique`, `inner`, `leftouter`, `rightouter`, `fullouter`, `leftanti`, `rightanti`, `leftsemi`, `rightsemi`. The default is `innerunique`. For more information about join flavors, see [Returns](#returns).|
|*Hints*|string||Zero or more space-separated join hints in the form of *Name* `=` *Value* that control the behavior of the row-match operation and execution plan. For more information, see [Hints](#hints).
|*RightTable*|string|&check;|The right table or tabular expression, sometimes called the inner table, whose rows are to be merged. Denoted as `$right`.|
|*Conditions*|string|&check;|Determines how rows from *LeftTable* are matched with rows from *RightTable*. If the columns you want to match have the same name in both tables, use the syntax `ON` *ColumnName*. Otherwise, use the syntax `ON $left.`*LeftColumn* `==` `$right.`*RightColumn*. To specify multiple conditions, you can either use the "and" keyword or separate them with commas. If you use commas, the conditions are evaluated using the "and" logical operator.|

> [!TIP]
> For best performance, if one table is always smaller than the other, use it as the left side of the join.

### Hints

::: zone pivot="azuredataexplorer, fabric"

|Hint key |Values |Description  |
|---|---|---|
|`hint.remote`  |`auto`, `left`, `local`, `right` |See [Cross-Cluster Join](joincrosscluster.md)|
|`hint.strategy=broadcast` |Specifies the way to share the query load on cluster nodes. |See [broadcast join](broadcastjoin.md) |
|`hint.shufflekey=<key>` |The `shufflekey` query shares the query load on cluster nodes, using a key to partition data. |See [shuffle query](shufflequery.md) |
|`hint.strategy=shuffle` |The `shuffle` strategy query shares the query load on cluster nodes, where each node processes one partition of the data. |See [shuffle query](shufflequery.md)  |

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="azuremonitor"

|Name |Values |Description |
|---|---|---|
|`hint.remote`  |`auto`, `left`, `local`, `right`   | |
|`hint.strategy=broadcast` |Specifies the way to share the query load on cluster nodes. |See [broadcast join](broadcastjoin.md) |
|`hint.shufflekey=<key>` |The `shufflekey` query shares the query load on cluster nodes, using a key to partition data. |See [shuffle query](shufflequery.md) |
|`hint.strategy=shuffle` |The `shuffle` strategy query shares the query load on cluster nodes, where each node processes one partition of the data. |See [shuffle query](shufflequery.md)  |

::: zone-end

> [!NOTE]
> The join hints don't change the semantic of `join` but may affect performance.

## Returns

The return schema and rows depend on the join flavor. The join flavor is specified with the *kind* keyword. The following flavors of the join operator are supported:

| Join flavor | Returns | Illustration |Example|
| --- | --- | --- |
| [innerunique](join-innerunique.md) (default) | Inner join with left side deduplication<br />**Schema**: All columns from both tables, including the matching keys<br />**Rows**: All deduplicated rows from the left table that match rows from the right table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-innerunique.png" border="false"::: |[See example](join-innerunique.md#examples)|
| [inner](join-inner.md) | Standard inner join<br />**Schema**: All columns from both tables, including the matching keys<br />**Rows**: Only matching rows from both tables | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-inner.png" border="false"::: |[See example](join-inner.md#example)|
| [leftouter](join-leftouter.md) | Left outer join<br />**Schema**: All columns from both tables, including the matching keys<br />**Rows**: All records from the left table and only matching rows from the right table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-leftouter.png" border="false"::: |[See example](join-leftouter.md#example)|
| [rightouter](join-rightouter.md) | Right outer join<br />**Schema**: All columns from both tables, including the matching keys<br />**Rows**: All records from the right table and only matching rows from the left table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-rightouter.png" border="false"::: |[See example](join-rightouter.md#example)|
| [fullouter](join-fullouter.md) | Full outer join<br />**Schema**: All columns from both tables, including the matching keys<br />**Rows**: All records from both tables with unmatched cells populated with null | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-fullouter.png" border="false"::: |[See example](join-fullouter.md#example)|
| [leftsemi](join-leftsemi.md) | Left semi join<br />**Schema**: All columns from the left table<br />**Rows**: All records from the left table that match records from the right table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-leftsemi.png" border="false"::: |[See example](join-leftsemi.md#example)|
| [`leftanti`, `anti`, `leftantisemi`](join-leftanti.md) | Left anti join and semi variant<br />**Schema**: All columns from the left table<br />**Rows**: All records from the left table that don't match records from the right table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-leftanti.png" border="false"::: |[See example](join-leftanti.md#example)|
| [rightsemi](join-rightsemi.md) | Right semi join<br />**Schema**: All columns from the right table<br />**Rows**: All records from the right table that match records from the left table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-rightsemi.png" border="false"::: |[See example](join-rightsemi.md#example)|
| [`rightanti`, `rightantisemi`](join-rightanti.md) | Right anti join and semi variant<br />**Schema**: All columns from the right table<br />**Rows**: All records from the right table that don't match records from the left table | :::image type="icon" source="images/joinoperator/join-rightanti.png" border="false"::: |[See example](join-rightanti.md#example)|

### Cross-join

KQL doesn't provide a cross-join flavor. However, you can achieve a cross-join effect by using a placeholder key approach.

In the following example, a placeholder key is added to both tables and then used for the inner join operation, effectively achieving a cross-join-like behavior:

`X | extend placeholder=1 | join kind=inner (Y | extend placeholder=1) on placeholder`

## See also

* [Cross-cluster join](joincrosscluster.md)
* [Broadcast join](broadcastjoin.md)
* [Shuffle query](shufflequery.md)
