data-explorer/kusto/query/parse-where-operator.md, before:

---
title:  parse-where operator
description: Learn how to use the parse-where operator to parse the value of a string expression into one or more calculated columns.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 01/12/2023
---
# parse-where operator

Evaluates a string expression, and parses its value into one or more calculated columns. The result is only the successfully parsed strings.

`parse-where` parses the strings in the same way as [parse](parse-operator.md), and filters out strings that were not parsed successfully.

See [parse operator](parse-operator.md), which produces nulls for unsuccessfully parsed strings.

## Syntax

*T* `| parse-where` [`kind=`*kind* [`flags=` *regexFlags*]] *expression* `with` `*` (*stringConstant* *columnName* [`:` *columnType*]) `*`...

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *T* | string | &check; | The tabular input to parse.|
| *kind* | string | &check; | One of the [supported kind values](#supported-kind-values). The default value is `simple`.|
| *regexFlags* | string | |If *kind* is `regex`, then you can specify regex flags to be used like `U` for ungreedy, `m` for multi-line mode, `s` for match new line `\n`, and `i` for case-insensitive. More flags can be found in [Flags](re2.md#flags).|
| *expression* | string | &check; | An expression that evaluates to a string.|
| *stringConstant* | string | &check; | A string constant for which to search and parse.|
| *columnName* | string | &check; | The name of a column to assign a value to, extracted from the string expression. |
| *columnType* | string | | The scalar value that indicates the type to convert the value to. The default is the `string`.|

>[!NOTE]
>
> * Use [project](project-operator.md) if you also want to drop or rename some columns.
> * Use `*` in the pattern to skip junk values. This value can't be used after `string` column.
> * The parse pattern may start with *ColumnName*, in addition to *StringConstant*.
> * If the parsed *expression* isn't of type `string`, it will be converted to type `string`.

### Supported kind values

|Text|Description|
|--|--|
| `simple` | This is the default value. *stringConstant* is a regular string value and the match is strict. All string delimiters should appear in the parsed string, and all extended columns must match the required types.|
| `regex` | *stringConstant* may be a regular expression and the match is strict. All string delimiters, which can be a regex for this mode, should appear in the parsed string, and all extended columns must match the required types.|

### Regex mode

In regex mode, parse will translate the pattern to a regex and use [regular expressions](re2.md) in order to do the matching using numbered captured groups that are handled internally. For example:

```kusto
parse-where kind=regex Col with * <regex1> var1:string <regex2> var2:long
```

The regex that will be generated by the parse internally is `.*?<regex1>(.*?)<regex2>(\-\d+)`.

* `*` was translated to `.*?`.
* `string` was translated to `.*?`.
* `long` was translated to `\-\d+`.

## Returns

The input table, which is extended according to the list of columns that are provided to the operator.

> [!NOTE]
> Only successfully parsed strings will be in the output. Strings that don't match the pattern will be filtered out.

## Examples

The `parse-where` operator provides a streamlined way to `extend` a table by using multiple `extract` applications on the same `string` expression. This is most useful when the table has a `string` column that contains several values that you want to break into individual columns. For example, you can break up a column that was produced by a developer trace ("`printf`"/"`Console.WriteLine`") statement.

### Using `parse`

In the example below, the column `EventText` of table `Traces` contains strings of the form `Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName={0}, totalSlices= {1}, sliceNumber={2}, lockTime={3}, releaseTime={4}, previousLockTime={5})`. The operation below will extend the table with six columns: `resourceName` , `totalSlices`, `sliceNumber`, `lockTime`, `releaseTime`, `previousLockTime`, `Month`, and `Day`.

A few of the strings don't have a full match.

Using `parse`, the calculated columns will have nulls.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA92UTU/DMAyG75X6H6ycNlRpaYENinrkhibEdkMIZZ3ZAlk7JekAiR9P0i/SARuH7UJ7aOy+cfzEiQVqmEqWooIE5kybdyawd73BTE/xTcegtOTZou97YJ776kPK/zGMc82f3ieCp3iHAplC6ElUeSFTHLMVJrd8jYJnOEmXOC8EygB0rpkop6gkGgWg7HBcrGYoE55tmODzx6w0AxB5+jLlJg6NBuFoENFwCPQiPqMxDQOQ1ZK/C9YSNzwv1M3PYU4vjapPguMyhec7OWiXo9kBUwrUxvEnCHp0iIj+j2JE0e8c4T6OsKzWHo6S9uAc2xejc8CGO5noYZjMGfO9hyvfq7sF+N4HrJk0JG2zgFeul3ACpINGwDWBdMmIa8UGJFvYCC4gcXG/JC0zafFtcBeWuFZs+5uVEDv7GzJpdqHxNPq+1Ve4Mn/GVFeldaHqajsktcdJvPY0qQZNlDa/2rOVxSekEWJPoQUAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Traces = datatable(EventText: string)
    [
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=invalid_number, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=15, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, releaseTime=invalid_datetime, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:00)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=20, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=22, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=invalid_number, sliceNumber=16, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00)"
];
Traces  
| parse EventText with * "resourceName=" resourceName ", totalSlices=" totalSlices: long * "sliceNumber=" sliceNumber: long * "lockTime=" lockTime ", releaseTime=" releaseTime: date "," * "previousLockTime=" previouLockTime: date ")" *  
| project
    resourceName,
    totalSlices,
    sliceNumber,
    lockTime,
    releaseTime,
    previouLockTime
```

**Output**

|resourceName|totalSlices|sliceNumber|lockTime|releaseTime|previousLockTime|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||
|||||||
|||||||
|PipelineScheduler|27|20|02/17/2016 08:40:01|2016-02-17 08:40:01.0000000|2016-02-17 08:39:01.0000000|
|PipelineScheduler|27|22|02/17/2016 08:41:01|2016-02-17 08:41:00.0000000|2016-02-17 08:40:01.0000000|

### Using `parse-where`

Using 'parse-where' will filter-out unsuccessfully parsed strings from the result.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=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" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Traces = datatable(EventText: string)
    [
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=invalid_number, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=15, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, releaseTime=invalid_datetime, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:00)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=20, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=22, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=invalid_number, sliceNumber=16, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00)"
];
Traces  
| parse-where EventText with * "resourceName=" resourceName ", totalSlices=" totalSlices: long * "sliceNumber=" sliceNumber: long * "lockTime=" lockTime ", releaseTime=" releaseTime: date "," * "previousLockTime=" previousLockTime: date ")" *  
| project
    resourceName,
    totalSlices,
    sliceNumber,
    lockTime,
    releaseTime,
    previousLockTime
```

**Output**

|resourceName|totalSlices|sliceNumber|lockTime|releaseTime|previousLockTime|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|PipelineScheduler|27|20|02/17/2016 08:40:01|2016-02-17 08:40:01.0000000|2016-02-17 08:39:01.0000000|
|PipelineScheduler|27|22|02/17/2016 08:41:01|2016-02-17 08:41:00.0000000|2016-02-17 08:40:01.0000000|

### Regex mode using regex flags

To get the resourceName and totalSlices, use the following query:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA92Uz0/CMBTH70v2P7z0BGaGbiLozA7G7KbTAJ6MIWV7QqW0pO0AE/94y5YYMPLjgBfbQw/fb1/z6fvmCbQw0CxHAwkUzLo9EthIFyjtAFc2BmM1l+Om74FbL/VBKj2GTFn+9tEXPMceCmQGoaHRqFLnmLEZJk98joJL7OcTLEqBOgCrLBPVFZNIJYcLJngx5NLieC2btZKVsxHqJAwDECqfDrgrRaNW2G1FNOwAvYrbNKZO1fWruw1zjQuuSnP/e5mLa+dqkuC0WFH3B8flXg56iIMexUFPznGgPe32/2hPFO3mCA9xhMe0p6L9+5h19nLsj9nRHC5mvvd643v12PC9T5gzbfB8OUGNMOWycKNEu7is4HuMwJLbCZwB6aX9x+feXZrdPqQJgU1cIAFZWzYRySZw7OjkuLZVz2r1jrndKrL1Q1+VQ2/Q3QQAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Traces = datatable(EventText: string)
    [
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=non_valid_integer, sliceNumber=11, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=15, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:00)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=non_valid_integer, sliceNumber=44, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=22, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=16, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00)"
];
Traces
| parse-where kind = regex EventText with * "RESOURCENAME=" resourceName "," * "totalSlices=" totalSlices: long "," *
| project resourceName, totalSlices
```

**Output**

|resourceName|totalSlices|
|--|--|
||

### `parse-where` with case-insensitive regex flag

In the above query, the default mode was case-sensitive, so the strings were parsed successfully. No result was obtained.

To get the required result, run `parse-where` with a case-insensitive (`i`) regex flag.

Only three strings will be parsed successfully, so the result is three records (some totalSlices hold invalid integers).

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA92Uz0/CMBTH70v2P7zsBGaGbiLozA7G7KbTAJ6MIWV7jEppSdsBJv7xlC0xYOTHAS+2hx6+377m0/fN42hgoGiGGmLIqbF7xLGRLFCYAa5MBNooJoqm64Bdb/XhVXoEqTRs/NnnLMMecqQaoaFQy1JlmNIZxi9sjpwJ7GcTzEuOygcjDeXVFR0LKYYLylk+ZMJgsZH1RknL2QhVHAQ+cJlNB8yWImEr6LZCEnSA3ERtEhGrqvrV/Ya5wgWTpX78vczVrXU1Pf+8WGH3B8f1QQ5yjIOcxEHOznGkPe32/2hPGO7nCI5xBKe0p6L9+5h1DnIcjtnJHDZmrvN+5zr12HCdL5hTpfFyOUGFMGUit6NE2bisYMxpoWMG3+MElsxM4AK8XtJ/fu09JOn9UxJ7sI0Nnu9tLNuo3jZ4ZClFUduq55X8wMzsFNn5qTU3KKnV5QQAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Traces = datatable(EventText: string)
    [
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=non_valid_integer, sliceNumber=11, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=15, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:00)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=non_valid_integer, sliceNumber=44, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=22, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=16, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00)"
];
Traces
| parse-where kind = regex flags=i EventText with * "RESOURCENAME=" resourceName "," * "totalSlices=" totalSlices: long "," *
| project resourceName, totalSlices
```

**Output**

|resourceName|totalSlices|
|---|---|
|PipelineScheduler|27|
|PipelineScheduler|27|
|PipelineScheduler|27|

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/query/parse-where-operator.md, after:

---
title:  parse-where operator
description: Learn how to use the parse-where operator to parse the value of a string expression into one or more calculated columns.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 01/12/2023
---
# parse-where operator

Evaluates a string expression, and parses its value into one or more calculated columns. The result is only the successfully parsed strings.

`parse-where` parses the strings in the same way as [parse](parse-operator.md), and filters out strings that were not parsed successfully.

See [parse operator](parse-operator.md), which produces nulls for unsuccessfully parsed strings.

## Syntax

*T* `| parse-where` [`kind=`*kind* [`flags=` *regexFlags*]] *expression* `with` `*` (*stringConstant* *columnName* [`:` *columnType*]) `*`...

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *T* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The tabular input to parse.|
| *kind* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | One of the [supported kind values](#supported-kind-values). The default value is `simple`.|
| *regexFlags* | string | |If *kind* is `regex`, then you can specify regex flags to be used like `U` for ungreedy, `m` for multi-line mode, `s` for match new line `\n`, and `i` for case-insensitive. More flags can be found in [Flags](re2.md#flags).|
| *expression* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | An expression that evaluates to a string.|
| *stringConstant* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | A string constant for which to search and parse.|
| *columnName* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The name of a column to assign a value to, extracted from the string expression. |
| *columnType* | string | | The scalar value that indicates the type to convert the value to. The default is the `string`.|

>[!NOTE]
>
> * Use [project](project-operator.md) if you also want to drop or rename some columns.
> * Use `*` in the pattern to skip junk values. This value can't be used after `string` column.
> * The parse pattern may start with *ColumnName*, in addition to *StringConstant*.
> * If the parsed *expression* isn't of type `string`, it will be converted to type `string`.

### Supported kind values

|Text|Description|
|--|--|
| `simple` | This is the default value. *stringConstant* is a regular string value and the match is strict. All string delimiters should appear in the parsed string, and all extended columns must match the required types.|
| `regex` | *stringConstant* may be a regular expression and the match is strict. All string delimiters, which can be a regex for this mode, should appear in the parsed string, and all extended columns must match the required types.|

### Regex mode

In regex mode, parse will translate the pattern to a regex and use [regular expressions](re2.md) in order to do the matching using numbered captured groups that are handled internally. For example:

```kusto
parse-where kind=regex Col with * <regex1> var1:string <regex2> var2:long
```

The regex that will be generated by the parse internally is `.*?<regex1>(.*?)<regex2>(\-\d+)`.

* `*` was translated to `.*?`.
* `string` was translated to `.*?`.
* `long` was translated to `\-\d+`.

## Returns

The input table, which is extended according to the list of columns that are provided to the operator.

> [!NOTE]
> Only successfully parsed strings will be in the output. Strings that don't match the pattern will be filtered out.

## Examples

The `parse-where` operator provides a streamlined way to `extend` a table by using multiple `extract` applications on the same `string` expression. This is most useful when the table has a `string` column that contains several values that you want to break into individual columns. For example, you can break up a column that was produced by a developer trace ("`printf`"/"`Console.WriteLine`") statement.

### Using `parse`

In the example below, the column `EventText` of table `Traces` contains strings of the form `Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName={0}, totalSlices= {1}, sliceNumber={2}, lockTime={3}, releaseTime={4}, previousLockTime={5})`. The operation below will extend the table with six columns: `resourceName` , `totalSlices`, `sliceNumber`, `lockTime`, `releaseTime`, `previousLockTime`, `Month`, and `Day`.

A few of the strings don't have a full match.

Using `parse`, the calculated columns will have nulls.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA92UTU/DMAyG75X6H6ycNlRpaYENinrkhibEdkMIZZ3ZAlk7JekAiR9P0i/SARuH7UJ7aOy+cfzEiQVqmEqWooIE5kybdyawd73BTE/xTcegtOTZou97YJ776kPK/zGMc82f3ieCp3iHAplC6ElUeSFTHLMVJrd8jYJnOEmXOC8EygB0rpkop6gkGgWg7HBcrGYoE55tmODzx6w0AxB5+jLlJg6NBuFoENFwCPQiPqMxDQOQ1ZK/C9YSNzwv1M3PYU4vjapPguMyhec7OWiXo9kBUwrUxvEnCHp0iIj+j2JE0e8c4T6OsKzWHo6S9uAc2xejc8CGO5noYZjMGfO9hyvfq7sF+N4HrJk0JG2zgFeul3ACpINGwDWBdMmIa8UGJFvYCC4gcXG/JC0zafFtcBeWuFZs+5uVEDv7GzJpdqHxNPq+1Ve4Mn/GVFeldaHqajsktcdJvPY0qQZNlDa/2rOVxSekEWJPoQUAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Traces = datatable(EventText: string)
    [
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=invalid_number, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=15, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, releaseTime=invalid_datetime, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:00)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=20, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=22, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=invalid_number, sliceNumber=16, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00)"
];
Traces  
| parse EventText with * "resourceName=" resourceName ", totalSlices=" totalSlices: long * "sliceNumber=" sliceNumber: long * "lockTime=" lockTime ", releaseTime=" releaseTime: date "," * "previousLockTime=" previouLockTime: date ")" *  
| project
    resourceName,
    totalSlices,
    sliceNumber,
    lockTime,
    releaseTime,
    previouLockTime
```

**Output**

|resourceName|totalSlices|sliceNumber|lockTime|releaseTime|previousLockTime|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||||||
|||||||
|||||||
|PipelineScheduler|27|20|02/17/2016 08:40:01|2016-02-17 08:40:01.0000000|2016-02-17 08:39:01.0000000|
|PipelineScheduler|27|22|02/17/2016 08:41:01|2016-02-17 08:41:00.0000000|2016-02-17 08:40:01.0000000|

### Using `parse-where`

Using 'parse-where' will filter-out unsuccessfully parsed strings from the result.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=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" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Traces = datatable(EventText: string)
    [
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=invalid_number, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=15, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, releaseTime=invalid_datetime, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:00)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=20, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=22, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=invalid_number, sliceNumber=16, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00)"
];
Traces  
| parse-where EventText with * "resourceName=" resourceName ", totalSlices=" totalSlices: long * "sliceNumber=" sliceNumber: long * "lockTime=" lockTime ", releaseTime=" releaseTime: date "," * "previousLockTime=" previousLockTime: date ")" *  
| project
    resourceName,
    totalSlices,
    sliceNumber,
    lockTime,
    releaseTime,
    previousLockTime
```

**Output**

|resourceName|totalSlices|sliceNumber|lockTime|releaseTime|previousLockTime|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|PipelineScheduler|27|20|02/17/2016 08:40:01|2016-02-17 08:40:01.0000000|2016-02-17 08:39:01.0000000|
|PipelineScheduler|27|22|02/17/2016 08:41:01|2016-02-17 08:41:00.0000000|2016-02-17 08:40:01.0000000|

### Regex mode using regex flags

To get the resourceName and totalSlices, use the following query:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA92Uz0/CMBTH70v2P7z0BGaGbiLozA7G7KbTAJ6MIWV7QqW0pO0AE/94y5YYMPLjgBfbQw/fb1/z6fvmCbQw0CxHAwkUzLo9EthIFyjtAFc2BmM1l+Om74FbL/VBKj2GTFn+9tEXPMceCmQGoaHRqFLnmLEZJk98joJL7OcTLEqBOgCrLBPVFZNIJYcLJngx5NLieC2btZKVsxHqJAwDECqfDrgrRaNW2G1FNOwAvYrbNKZO1fWruw1zjQuuSnP/e5mLa+dqkuC0WFH3B8flXg56iIMexUFPznGgPe32/2hPFO3mCA9xhMe0p6L9+5h19nLsj9nRHC5mvvd643v12PC9T5gzbfB8OUGNMOWycKNEu7is4HuMwJLbCZwB6aX9x+feXZrdPqQJgU1cIAFZWzYRySZw7OjkuLZVz2r1jrndKrL1Q1+VQ2/Q3QQAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Traces = datatable(EventText: string)
    [
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=non_valid_integer, sliceNumber=11, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=15, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:00)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=non_valid_integer, sliceNumber=44, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=22, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=16, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00)"
];
Traces
| parse-where kind = regex EventText with * "RESOURCENAME=" resourceName "," * "totalSlices=" totalSlices: long "," *
| project resourceName, totalSlices
```

**Output**

|resourceName|totalSlices|
|--|--|
||

### `parse-where` with case-insensitive regex flag

In the above query, the default mode was case-sensitive, so the strings were parsed successfully. No result was obtained.

To get the required result, run `parse-where` with a case-insensitive (`i`) regex flag.

Only three strings will be parsed successfully, so the result is three records (some totalSlices hold invalid integers).

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA92Uz0/CMBTH70v2P7zsBGaGbiLozA7G7KbTAJ6MIWV7jEppSdsBJv7xlC0xYOTHAS+2hx6+377m0/fN42hgoGiGGmLIqbF7xLGRLFCYAa5MBNooJoqm64Bdb/XhVXoEqTRs/NnnLMMecqQaoaFQy1JlmNIZxi9sjpwJ7GcTzEuOygcjDeXVFR0LKYYLylk+ZMJgsZH1RknL2QhVHAQ+cJlNB8yWImEr6LZCEnSA3ERtEhGrqvrV/Ya5wgWTpX78vczVrXU1Pf+8WGH3B8f1QQ5yjIOcxEHOznGkPe32/2hPGO7nCI5xBKe0p6L9+5h1DnIcjtnJHDZmrvN+5zr12HCdL5hTpfFyOUGFMGUit6NE2bisYMxpoWMG3+MElsxM4AK8XtJ/fu09JOn9UxJ7sI0Nnu9tLNuo3jZ4ZClFUduq55X8wMzsFNn5qTU3KKnV5QQAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Traces = datatable(EventText: string)
    [
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=non_valid_integer, sliceNumber=11, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=15, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:00)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=non_valid_integer, sliceNumber=44, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:39:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=22, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:01, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:01)",
    "Event: NotifySliceRelease (resourceName=PipelineScheduler, totalSlices=27, sliceNumber=16, lockTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, releaseTime=02/17/2016 08:41:00, previousLockTime=02/17/2016 08:40:00)"
];
Traces
| parse-where kind = regex flags=i EventText with * "RESOURCENAME=" resourceName "," * "totalSlices=" totalSlices: long "," *
| project resourceName, totalSlices
```

**Output**

|resourceName|totalSlices|
|---|---|
|PipelineScheduler|27|
|PipelineScheduler|27|
|PipelineScheduler|27|
