data-explorer/kusto/query/percentile-array-tdigest-function.md, before:

---
title:  percentile_array_tdigest()
description: Learn how to use the percentile_array_tdigest() to calculate the percentile value of an expression.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 01/11/2023
---
# percentile_array_tdigest()

Calculates the percentile result from the `tdigest` results (which was generated by [tdigest()](tdigest-aggregation-function.md) or [tdigest_merge()](tdigest-merge-aggregation-function.md))

## Syntax

`percentiles_array_tdigest(`*tdigest*`,` *percentile1* [`,` *percentile2*`,` ...]`)`

`percentiles_array_tdigest(`*tdigest*`,` *Dynamic array* [`,` *typeLiteral* ]`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *tdigest*| string | &check; | The [`tdigest`](tdigest-aggregation-function.md) or [tdigest_merge()](tdigest-merge-aggregation-function.md) results used to calculate the percentiles.|
| *percentile* | real | &check; | A value or comma-separated list of values that specifies the percentiles.|
| *Dynamic array*| dynamic | &check; | A dynamic array of real numbers that specify the percentiles.|
| *typeLiteral*| string | | A type literal. For example, `typeof(long)`. If provided, the result set is of this type.|

## Returns

The percentile/percentiles value of each value in *tdigest*.

>[!TIP]
>
>* The function must receive at least one percent (and maybe more, see the syntax above: *percentile1* [`,` *percentile2*] ...[`,` *percentileN*]) and the result will be
a dynamic array that includes the results. (such like [`percentiles()`](percentiles-aggregation-function.md))
>* If only one percent was provided, and the type was provided also, then the result will be a column of the same type provided with the results of that percent. In this case, all `tdigest` functions must be of that type.
>* If *tdigest* includes `tdigest` functions of different types, don't provide the type. The result will be of type dynamic. See below examples.

## Examples

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA0WMuwoCMRBFe79iygRSxMLSTntxP2AZ12uImAeTWSHix5tmsblwuJwzaZF0fiNr232prSmxxA9I7zGg6RWNjhuYEycOuEipEO2Wbp0mZcUwq5QnFqXxLCMWX2gzi3CfN/lfdCScA4x3tPdjDt460l5RHiZmtfYHKGdLI5UAAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| summarize tdigestRes = tdigest(DamageProperty) by State
| project percentiles_array_tdigest(tdigestRes, range(0, 100, 50), typeof(int))
```

**Output**

|percentile_tdigest_tdigestRes|
|---|
|[0,0,0]|
|[0,0,62000000]|
|[0,0,110000000]|
|[0,0,1200000]|
|[0,0,250000]|

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/query/percentile-array-tdigest-function.md, after:

---
title:  percentile_array_tdigest()
description: Learn how to use the percentile_array_tdigest() to calculate the percentile value of an expression.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 01/11/2023
---
# percentile_array_tdigest()

Calculates the percentile result from the `tdigest` results (which was generated by [tdigest()](tdigest-aggregation-function.md) or [tdigest_merge()](tdigest-merge-aggregation-function.md))

## Syntax

`percentiles_array_tdigest(`*tdigest*`,` *percentile1* [`,` *percentile2*`,` ...]`)`

`percentiles_array_tdigest(`*tdigest*`,` *Dynamic array* [`,` *typeLiteral* ]`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *tdigest*| string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The [`tdigest`](tdigest-aggregation-function.md) or [tdigest_merge()](tdigest-merge-aggregation-function.md) results used to calculate the percentiles.|
| *percentile* | real |  :heavy_check_mark: | A value or comma-separated list of values that specifies the percentiles.|
| *Dynamic array*| dynamic |  :heavy_check_mark: | A dynamic array of real numbers that specify the percentiles.|
| *typeLiteral*| string | | A type literal. For example, `typeof(long)`. If provided, the result set is of this type.|

## Returns

The percentile/percentiles value of each value in *tdigest*.

>[!TIP]
>
>* The function must receive at least one percent (and maybe more, see the syntax above: *percentile1* [`,` *percentile2*] ...[`,` *percentileN*]) and the result will be
a dynamic array that includes the results. (such like [`percentiles()`](percentiles-aggregation-function.md))
>* If only one percent was provided, and the type was provided also, then the result will be a column of the same type provided with the results of that percent. In this case, all `tdigest` functions must be of that type.
>* If *tdigest* includes `tdigest` functions of different types, don't provide the type. The result will be of type dynamic. See below examples.

## Examples

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA0WMuwoCMRBFe79iygRSxMLSTntxP2AZ12uImAeTWSHix5tmsblwuJwzaZF0fiNr232prSmxxA9I7zGg6RWNjhuYEycOuEipEO2Wbp0mZcUwq5QnFqXxLCMWX2gzi3CfN/lfdCScA4x3tPdjDt460l5RHiZmtfYHKGdLI5UAAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| summarize tdigestRes = tdigest(DamageProperty) by State
| project percentiles_array_tdigest(tdigestRes, range(0, 100, 50), typeof(int))
```

**Output**

|percentile_tdigest_tdigestRes|
|---|
|[0,0,0]|
|[0,0,62000000]|
|[0,0,110000000]|
|[0,0,1200000]|
|[0,0,250000]|
