data-explorer/kusto/query/scan-operator.md, before:

---
title:  scan operator
description: Learn how to use the scan operator to scan data, match, and build sequences based on the predicates.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 08/20/2023
---
# scan operator

Scans data, matches, and builds sequences based on the predicates.

Matching records are determined according to predicates defined in the operator’s steps. A predicate can depend on the state that is generated by previous steps.
The output for the matching record is determined by the input record and assignments defined in the operator's steps.

## Syntax

*T* `| scan` [ `with_match_id` `=` *MatchIdColumnName* ] [ `declare` `(` *ColumnDeclarations* `)` ] `with` `(` *StepDefinitions* `)`

### *ColumnDeclarations* syntax

*ColumnName* `:` *ColumnType*[`=` *DefaultValue* ] [`,` ... ]

### *StepDefinition* syntax

`step` *StepName* [ `output` = `all` | `last` | `none`] `:` *Condition* [ `=>` *Column* `=` *Assignment* [`,` ... ] ] `;`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
|*T*|string|&check;|The input tabular source.|
| *MatchIdColumnName* | string | |  The name of a column of type `long` that is appended to the output as part of the scan execution. Indicates the 0-based index of the match for the row. |
| *ColumnDeclarations* | string | | Declares an extension to the schema of *T*. These columns are assigned values in the steps. If not assigned, the *DefaultValue* is returned. Unless otherwise specified, *DefaultValue* is `null`.|
| *StepName* | string | &check; | Used to reference values in the state of scan for conditions and assignments. The step name must be unique.|
| *Condition* | string | &check; | An expression that evaluates to `true` or `false` that defines which records from the input match the step. A record matches the step when the condition is `true` with the step’s state or with the previous step’s state.|
| *Assignment* | string | | A scalar expression that is assigned to the corresponding column when a record matches a step.|
| `output` | string | | Controls the output logic of the step on repeated matches. `all` outputs all records matching the step, `last` outputs only the last record in a series of repeating matches for the step, and `none` doesn't output records matching the step. The default is `all`.|

## Returns

A record for each match of a record from the input to a step. The schema of the output is the schema of the source extended with the column in the `declare` clause.

## Scan logic

`scan` goes over the serialized input data, record by record, comparing each record against each step’s condition while taking into account the current state of each step.

### State

The underlying state of the `scan` operator can be thought of as a table with a row for each `step`. Each step maintains its own state with the latest values of the columns and declared variables from all of the previous steps and the current step. If relevant, it also holds the match ID for the ongoing sequence. For an example, see the [scan logic walkthrough](#scan-logic-walkthrough).

The state starts empty and updates whenever a scanned input row matches a step. A step has an *active sequence* if the state of the step is nonempty and contains the values for the sequence.

### Matching logic

Each record from the input is evaluated against all of scan’s steps, starting from last to first. When a record *r* is considered against some step *s_k*, the following logic is applied:

* If the state of the previous step isn't empty and the record *r* satisfies the condition of *s_k* using the state of the previous step *s_(k-1)*, then the following happens:
    1. The state of *s_k* is deleted.
    1. The state of *s_(k-1)* becomes ("promoted" to be) the state of *s_k*, and the state of *s_(k-1)* becomes empty.
    1. All the assignments of *s_k* are calculated and extend *r*.
    1. The extended *r* is added to the output (if *s_k* is defined as `output=all`) and to the state of *s_k*.
* If *r* doesn't satisfy the condition of *s_k* with the state of *s_(k-1)*, *r* is then checked with the state of *s_k*. If *r* satisfies the condition of *s_k* with the state of *s_k*, the following happens:
    1. The record *r* is extended with the assignments of *s_k*.
    1. If *s_k* is defined as `output=all`, the extended record r is added to the output.
    1. The last record in the state of *s_k* (which represents *s_k* itself in the state) is replaced by the extended record *r*.
    1. Whenever the first step is matched while its state is empty, a new match begins and the match ID is increased by `1`. This only affects the output when `with_match_id` is used.
* If r doesn't satisfy the condition *s_k* with the state *s_k*, evaluate *r* against condition *s_k-1* and repeat the logic above.

For a detailed example of this logic, see the [scan logic walkthrough](#scan-logic-walkthrough).

## Examples

### Cumulative sum

Calculate the cumulative sum for an input column. The result of this example is equivalent to using [row_cumsum()](rowcumsumfunction.md).

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA02NOwqAMBBE+5xiSkUQLWyUeBUJcf1ATCTZaAoPb7ByqmEej/HKroSExbsDLdihQ2A6cxcPglYWM2mjPKHQ8YhG8X7RlHrj7CqbEvfOG0QhkPOJoe3BPhLkiL8BmW+qjOv/OojyBSZSTeODAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
range x from 1 to 5 step 1 
| scan declare (cumulative_x:long=0) with 
(
    step s1: true => cumulative_x = x + s1.cumulative_x;
)
```

**Output**

|x|cumulative_x|
|---|---|
|1|1|
|2|3|
|3|6|
|4|10|
|5|15|

### Cumulative sum on multiple columns with a reset condition

Calculate the cumulative sum for two input columns, reset the sum value to the current row value whenever the cumulative sum reached 10 or more.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA22OQQrCMBBF9znFXzZaxAhuKulVJLSTWmhTSdKagIc3FIVo/fzVG+bNWGU6QoC20wgBP+EM5+kOwZ6g4Mm0iJA4YYeQkGuUQUvNoCyhaOZxHpTvF7qGaphMJ48lMhjfkOPR+xtYwZCy+p2o4O1MkHW+EdKtXuvCicMXrSVEcodU7PEz5SVW8Sb5K3/F8SOOqRtx5BfGX1hK/bgiAQAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
range x from 1 to 5 step 1
| extend y = 2 * x
| scan declare (cumulative_x:long=0, cumulative_y:long=0) with 
(
    step s1: true => cumulative_x = iff(s1.cumulative_x >= 10, x, x + s1.cumulative_x), 
                     cumulative_y = iff(s1.cumulative_y >= 10, y, y + s1.cumulative_y);
)
```

**Output**

|x|y|cumulative_x|cumulative_y|
|---|---|---|---|
|1|2|1|2|
|2|4|3|6|
|3|6|6|12|
|4|8|10|8|
|5|10|5|18|

### Fill forward a column

Fill forward a string column. Each empty value is assigned the last seen nonempty value.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA01Qy2rDMBC86ysGnSwwoW5DCAkuNI8/yK2EoNjrViC7xrtNCPTjK8sOaPcyo50dRutJcLxRJ4wStZXQV0/ITryBuJa4t10+KTZgGVz3ZfCpEOqlzaE/dB5JMZIZv454N5O3ZLBM8GrE+5msk0ERrQ5PFs20OqutmnKqP/DPILg+cGJYrsaHynaoqfJ2CNmj7tI476l+hi61Nrg7+YbKojEL9eAi/HL4JZTvSLfCLVzTZI6p7eUxGZo8yBepar6L2SrzD0ocTu9HAQAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Events = datatable (Ts: timespan, Event: string) [
    0m, "A",
    1m, "",
    2m, "B",
    3m, "",
    4m, "",
    6m, "C",
    8m, "",
    11m, "D",
    12m, ""
]
;
Events
| sort by Ts asc
| scan declare (Event_filled: string="") with 
(
    step s1: true => Event_filled = iff(isempty(Event), s1.Event_filled, Event);
)
```

**Output**

|Ts|Event|Event_filled|
|---|---|---|
|00:00:00|A|A|
|00:01:00||A|
|00:02:00|B|B|
|00:03:00||B|
|00:04:00||B|
|00:06:00|C|C|
|00:08:00||C|
|00:11:00|D|D|
|00:12:00||D|

### Sessions tagging

Divide the input into sessions: a session ends 30 minutes after the first event of the session, after which a new session starts. Note the use of `with_match_id` flag, which assigns a unique value for each distinct match (session) of *scan*. Also note the special use of two *steps* in this example, `inSession` has `true` as condition so it captures and outputs all the records from the input while `endSession` captures records that happen more than 30m from the `sessionStart` value for the current match. The `endSession` step has `output=none` meaning it doesn't produce output records. The `endSession` step is used to advance the state of the current match from `inSession` to `endSession`, allowing a new match (session) to begin, starting from the current record.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA3WQy2rDMBBF9/qKS1Y2qCVt+sLGgT7yBcmulKDYSiOQZaMZtxT68ZVsp3EWkTY6M/fOQ1YzVl/aMaFApTjcndVINpSBTa2pVU4OigzE3rjPFO8C4cxridnzTPZwM4XbCC8jLCK8HeE89RDp9UhPU+VdX3E10uP9UF98iFwM84pfUOMZux9sCIrKGCiVw7fhw7ZWXB62pipIE5nGhScqXVrlw3JjbM3K82nNtHdCJH1HYt3CuPUgDSrfaRRLTL3hy8x+nxhynbXJv/h6qkllGE/iQjI/9dKuGiVoOm47LlzjdBaXu7pgxxKLeZ2L9A9Yk5hPxgEAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Events = datatable (Ts: timespan, Event: string) [
    0m, "A",
    1m, "A",
    2m, "B",
    3m, "D",
    32m, "B",
    36m, "C",
    38m, "D",
    41m, "E",
    75m, "A"
]
;
Events
| sort by Ts asc
| scan with_match_id=session_id declare (sessionStart: timespan) with 
(
    step inSession: true => sessionStart = iff(isnull(inSession.sessionStart), Ts, inSession.sessionStart);
    step endSession output=none: Ts - inSession.sessionStart > 30m;
)
```

**Output**

|Ts|Event|sessionStart|session_id|
|---|---|---|---|
|00:00:00|A|00:00:00|0|
|00:01:00|A|00:00:00|0|
|00:02:00|B|00:00:00|0|
|00:03:00|D|00:00:00|0|
|00:32:00|B|00:32:00|1|
|00:36:00|C|00:32:00|1|
|00:38:00|D|00:32:00|1|
|00:41:00|E|00:32:00|1|
|01:15:00|A|01:15:00|2|

### Events between Start and Stop

Find all sequences of events between the event `Start` and the event `Stop` that occur within 5 minutes. Assign a match ID for each sequence.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA3WPYWvCMBCGv+dXvPOTQidr3cZozYc5/QX6TYbENsxCE0vvcAj+eJM0FR0sgRzPe3fvXRrNWJ20ZYJEpdjdfaMx3lAOro2mVtmkr8hB3NX2Z4KtgDsvJsHoc5QESD2sWXUchcwLiwgzD8sIr33psY387vkrwsdfnzQ4rwbKbs3iWxSiX11cQMeOsT9jQ1BUeqFUFr81H3ZGcXnY1ZU07gkSxDi4EesWlOb9/yDlMLq4S2dD+umWhrLVg+jWCZqb/uwMpy7OJd7Mvc/sccz/LZMrJ20JNJQBAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Events = datatable (Ts: timespan, Event: string) [
    0m, "A",
    1m, "Start",
    2m, "B",
    3m, "D",
    4m, "Stop",
    6m, "C",
    8m, "Start",
    11m, "E",
    12m, "Stop"
]
;
Events
| sort by Ts asc
| scan with_match_id=m_id with 
(
    step s1: Event == "Start";
    step s2: Event != "Start" and Event != "Stop" and Ts - s1.Ts <= 5m;
    step s3: Event == "Stop" and Ts - s1.Ts <= 5m;
)
```

**Output**

|Ts|Event|m_id|
|---|---|---|
|00:01:00|Start|0|
|00:02:00|B|0|
|00:03:00|D|0|
|00:04:00|Stop|0|
|00:08:00|Start|1|
|00:11:00|E|1|
|00:12:00|Stop|1|

### Calculate a custom funnel of events

Calculate a funnel completion of the sequence  `Hail` -> `Tornado` -> `Thunderstorm Wind` by `State` with custom thresholds on the times between the events (`Tornado` within `1h` and `Thunderstorm Wind` within `2h`). This example is similar to the [funnel_sequence_completion plugin](funnel-sequence-completion-plugin.md), but allows greater flexibility.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA2VQsa7CMBDb+QqrEwwgPUZ4HZHYqcR8NNHLSfRSJVeeivh40lBBgQw32D774oP60OwuVjTObmgpKCt7gWPRVdRAav/6Ukj5YnHqcdCEYIb05nlGH3QkglbcWFCsM3NDrEnwz+qmC3lJbQtHfN4gZ1d9a1GWKPYJK7bvunShkPGf0uoBFyAxk/Rl9l29gN8SP+7T0nVibIjD548s5st7wmMQfKeMV70HrcegxThTBV3TUOCrhal9JzrPBS6Gxp6RdzkEW8CEAQAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| partition hint.strategy=native by State 
    (
    sort by StartTime asc
    | scan with 
    (
        step hail: EventType == "Hail";
        step tornado: EventType == "Tornado" and StartTime - hail.StartTime <= 1h;
        step thunderstormWind: EventType == "Thunderstorm Wind" and StartTime - tornado.StartTime <= 2h;
    )
    )
| summarize dcount(State) by EventType
```

**Output**

|EventType|dcount_State|
|---|---|
|Hail|50|
|Tornado|34|
|Thunderstorm Wind|32|

## Scan logic walkthrough

This section demonstrates the [scan logic](#scan-logic) using a step-by-step walkthrough of the [Events between start and stop](#events-between-start-and-stop) example:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA3WPYWvCMBCGv+dXvPOTQidr3cZozYc5/QX6TYbENsxCE0vvcAj+eJM0FR0sgRzPe3fvXRrNWJ20ZYJEpdjdfaMx3lAOro2mVtmkr8hB3NX2Z4KtgDsvJsHoc5QESD2sWXUchcwLiwgzD8sIr33psY387vkrwsdfnzQ4rwbKbs3iWxSiX11cQMeOsT9jQ1BUeqFUFr81H3ZGcXnY1ZU07gkSxDi4EesWlOb9/yDlMLq4S2dD+umWhrLVg+jWCZqb/uwMpy7OJd7Mvc/sccz/LZMrJ20JNJQBAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Events = datatable (Ts: timespan, Event: string) [
    0m, "A",
    1m, "Start",
    2m, "B",
    3m, "D",
    4m, "Stop",
    6m, "C",
    8m, "Start",
    11m, "E",
    12m, "Stop"
]
;
Events
| sort by Ts asc
| scan with_match_id=m_id with 
(
    step s1: Event == "Start";
    step s2: Event != "Start" and Event != "Stop" and Ts - s1.Ts <= 5m;
    step s3: Event == "Stop" and Ts - s1.Ts <= 5m;
)
```

### The state

The state of the `scan` operator is like a table with a row for each step, in which each step has its own state. A value in the state is represented as *StepName*.*ColumnName*. For example, `s1.Ts` references column `Ts` that belongs to step `s1` in the state of the given step. To learn more, see [State](#state).

For this example, the state can be represented with the following table:

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2||||||X|X|
|s3||||||||

The "X" indicates that a specific field is irrelevant for that step.

### The matching logic

This section follows the [matching logic](#matching-logic) through each input row, explaining the transformation of the state and output at each step. 

#### Row 1

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|0m|"A"|

The first row of the `Events` table can't match `s3` because it doesn't have an active sequence, and the state of `s2` is empty. This row also can't match `s2` because it doesn't have an active sequence, and the state of `s1` is empty. This row doesn't meet the `s1` condition of `Event == "Start"`, so it's discarded without impacting the state or output.

#### Row 2

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|1m|"Start"|

Again, this row can't match `s3` because it doesn't have an active sequence, and the state of `s2` is empty. This row also can't match `s2` because it doesn't have an active sequence, and the state of `s1` is empty. However, this row meets the `s1` condition of `Event == "Start"`. This match initiates a new sequence, and the `m_id` is assigned. The row and its `m_id` are added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1|0|00:01:00|"Start"|X|X|X|X|
|s2||||||X|X|
|s3||||||||

#### Row 3

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|2m|"B"|

This row can't match `s3` because it doesn't have an active sequence, and the state of `s2` is empty. This row meets the `s2` condition of `Ts - s1.Ts < 5m`, and the prior step of `s1` is active. These conditions cause the sequence in `s1` to be promoted to `s2` and the `s1` state to be cleared. The row `00:02:00, "B", 0` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2|0|00:01:00|"Start"|00:02:00|"B"|X|X|
|s3||||||||

#### Row 4 

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|3m|"D"|

This row doesn't meet the `s3` condition of `Event == "Stop"`. However, the row meets the `s2` condition again. This match overrides the existing state of `s2`, and replaces `s2.Ts` and `s2.Event` in the state of the sequence with the values from this row. The row `00:03:00, "D", 0` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2|0|00:01:00|"Start"|00:03:00|"D"|X|X|
|s3||||||||

#### Row 5

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|4m|"Stop"|

This row meets the `s3` condition of `Event == "Stop"`. This match promotes the existing sequence from `s2` to `s3`. The row `00:04:00, "Stop", 0` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2||||||X|X|
|s3|0|00:01:00|"Start"|00:03:00|"D"|00:04:00|"Stop"|

#### Row 6

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|6m|"C"|

Since there's no active sequence in `s1` or `s2`, and the row doesn't meet the conditions of either `s1` or `s3`, this row doesn't match any step and is discarded.

#### Row 7

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|8m|"Start"|

This row starts a new sequence in `s1` with a new match ID. There are now two active sequences in the state. The row `00:08:00, "Start", 1` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1|1|00:08:00|"Start"|X|X|X|X|
|s2||||||X|X|
|s3|0|00:01:00|"Start"|00:03:00|"D"|00:04:00|"Stop"|

#### Row 8


|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|11m|"E"|

This row promotes the sequence from `s1` to `s2` and clears the state of `s1`. The row `00:11:00, "E", 1` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2|1|00:08:00|"Start"|00:11:00|"E"|X|X|
|s3|0|00:01:00|"Start"|00:03:00|"D"|00:04:00|"Stop"|

#### Row 9

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|12m|"Stop"|

The last row promotes `s2` to `s3` and clears `s2`, as promoting a sequence gets precedence over continuing an existing sequence. Notice that `s3` is overridden with the values that were promoted from `s2`. The row `00:12:00, "Stop, 1"` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2||||||X|X|
|s3|1|00:08:00|"Start"|00:11:00|"E"|00:12:00|"Stop"|

#### Final output

|Ts|Event|m_id|
|---|---|---|
|00:01:00|Start|0|
|00:02:00|B|0|
|00:03:00|D|0|
|00:04:00|Stop|0|
|00:08:00|Start|1|
|00:11:00|E|1|
|00:12:00|Stop|1|

Commit message:

add back how to reference val in state

data-explorer/kusto/query/scan-operator.md, after:

---
title:  scan operator
description: Learn how to use the scan operator to scan data, match, and build sequences based on the predicates.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 08/20/2023
---
# scan operator

Scans data, matches, and builds sequences based on the predicates.

Matching records are determined according to predicates defined in the operator’s steps. A predicate can depend on the state that is generated by previous steps.
The output for the matching record is determined by the input record and assignments defined in the operator's steps.

## Syntax

*T* `| scan` [ `with_match_id` `=` *MatchIdColumnName* ] [ `declare` `(` *ColumnDeclarations* `)` ] `with` `(` *StepDefinitions* `)`

### *ColumnDeclarations* syntax

*ColumnName* `:` *ColumnType*[`=` *DefaultValue* ] [`,` ... ]

### *StepDefinition* syntax

`step` *StepName* [ `output` = `all` | `last` | `none`] `:` *Condition* [ `=>` *Column* `=` *Assignment* [`,` ... ] ] `;`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
|*T*|string|&check;|The input tabular source.|
| *MatchIdColumnName* | string | |  The name of a column of type `long` that is appended to the output as part of the scan execution. Indicates the 0-based index of the match for the row. |
| *ColumnDeclarations* | string | | Declares an extension to the schema of *T*. These columns are assigned values in the steps. If not assigned, the *DefaultValue* is returned. Unless otherwise specified, *DefaultValue* is `null`.|
| *StepName* | string | &check; | Used to reference values in the state of scan for conditions and assignments. The step name must be unique.|
| *Condition* | string | &check; | An expression that evaluates to `true` or `false` that defines which records from the input match the step. A record matches the step when the condition is `true` with the step’s state or with the previous step’s state.|
| *Assignment* | string | | A scalar expression that is assigned to the corresponding column when a record matches a step.|
| `output` | string | | Controls the output logic of the step on repeated matches. `all` outputs all records matching the step, `last` outputs only the last record in a series of repeating matches for the step, and `none` doesn't output records matching the step. The default is `all`.|

## Returns

A record for each match of a record from the input to a step. The schema of the output is the schema of the source extended with the column in the `declare` clause.

## Scan logic

`scan` goes over the serialized input data, record by record, comparing each record against each step’s condition while taking into account the current state of each step.

### State

The underlying state of the `scan` operator can be thought of as a table with a row for each `step`. Each step maintains its own state with the latest values of the columns and declared variables from all of the previous steps and the current step. If relevant, it also holds the match ID for the ongoing sequence.

If a scan operator has *n* steps named *s_1*, *s_2*, ..., *s_n* then step *s_k* would have *k* records in its state corresponding to *s_1*, *s_2*, ..., *s_k*. The *StepName*.*ColumnName* format is used to reference a value in the state. For example, `s_2.col1` references column `col1` that belongs to step *s_2* in the state of *s_k*. For an example, see the [scan logic walkthrough](#scan-logic-walkthrough).

The state starts empty and updates whenever a scanned input row matches a step. A step has an *active sequence* if the state of the step is nonempty and contains the values for the sequence.

### Matching logic

Each record from the input is evaluated against all of scan’s steps, starting from last to first. When a record *r* is considered against some step *s_k*, the following logic is applied:

* If the state of the previous step isn't empty and the record *r* satisfies the condition of *s_k* using the state of the previous step *s_(k-1)*, then the following happens:
    1. The state of *s_k* is deleted.
    1. The state of *s_(k-1)* becomes ("promoted" to be) the state of *s_k*, and the state of *s_(k-1)* becomes empty.
    1. All the assignments of *s_k* are calculated and extend *r*.
    1. The extended *r* is added to the output (if *s_k* is defined as `output=all`) and to the state of *s_k*.
* If *r* doesn't satisfy the condition of *s_k* with the state of *s_(k-1)*, *r* is then checked with the state of *s_k*. If *r* satisfies the condition of *s_k* with the state of *s_k*, the following happens:
    1. The record *r* is extended with the assignments of *s_k*.
    1. If *s_k* is defined as `output=all`, the extended record r is added to the output.
    1. The last record in the state of *s_k* (which represents *s_k* itself in the state) is replaced by the extended record *r*.
    1. Whenever the first step is matched while its state is empty, a new match begins and the match ID is increased by `1`. This only affects the output when `with_match_id` is used.
* If r doesn't satisfy the condition *s_k* with the state *s_k*, evaluate *r* against condition *s_k-1* and repeat the logic above.

For a detailed example of this logic, see the [scan logic walkthrough](#scan-logic-walkthrough).

## Examples

### Cumulative sum

Calculate the cumulative sum for an input column. The result of this example is equivalent to using [row_cumsum()](rowcumsumfunction.md).

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA02NOwqAMBBE+5xiSkUQLWyUeBUJcf1ATCTZaAoPb7ByqmEej/HKroSExbsDLdihQ2A6cxcPglYWM2mjPKHQ8YhG8X7RlHrj7CqbEvfOG0QhkPOJoe3BPhLkiL8BmW+qjOv/OojyBSZSTeODAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
range x from 1 to 5 step 1 
| scan declare (cumulative_x:long=0) with 
(
    step s1: true => cumulative_x = x + s1.cumulative_x;
)
```

**Output**

|x|cumulative_x|
|---|---|
|1|1|
|2|3|
|3|6|
|4|10|
|5|15|

### Cumulative sum on multiple columns with a reset condition

Calculate the cumulative sum for two input columns, reset the sum value to the current row value whenever the cumulative sum reached 10 or more.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA22OQQrCMBBF9znFXzZaxAhuKulVJLSTWmhTSdKagIc3FIVo/fzVG+bNWGU6QoC20wgBP+EM5+kOwZ6g4Mm0iJA4YYeQkGuUQUvNoCyhaOZxHpTvF7qGaphMJ48lMhjfkOPR+xtYwZCy+p2o4O1MkHW+EdKtXuvCicMXrSVEcodU7PEz5SVW8Sb5K3/F8SOOqRtx5BfGX1hK/bgiAQAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
range x from 1 to 5 step 1
| extend y = 2 * x
| scan declare (cumulative_x:long=0, cumulative_y:long=0) with 
(
    step s1: true => cumulative_x = iff(s1.cumulative_x >= 10, x, x + s1.cumulative_x), 
                     cumulative_y = iff(s1.cumulative_y >= 10, y, y + s1.cumulative_y);
)
```

**Output**

|x|y|cumulative_x|cumulative_y|
|---|---|---|---|
|1|2|1|2|
|2|4|3|6|
|3|6|6|12|
|4|8|10|8|
|5|10|5|18|

### Fill forward a column

Fill forward a string column. Each empty value is assigned the last seen nonempty value.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA01Qy2rDMBC86ysGnSwwoW5DCAkuNI8/yK2EoNjrViC7xrtNCPTjK8sOaPcyo50dRutJcLxRJ4wStZXQV0/ITryBuJa4t10+KTZgGVz3ZfCpEOqlzaE/dB5JMZIZv454N5O3ZLBM8GrE+5msk0ERrQ5PFs20OqutmnKqP/DPILg+cGJYrsaHynaoqfJ2CNmj7tI476l+hi61Nrg7+YbKojEL9eAi/HL4JZTvSLfCLVzTZI6p7eUxGZo8yBepar6L2SrzD0ocTu9HAQAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Events = datatable (Ts: timespan, Event: string) [
    0m, "A",
    1m, "",
    2m, "B",
    3m, "",
    4m, "",
    6m, "C",
    8m, "",
    11m, "D",
    12m, ""
]
;
Events
| sort by Ts asc
| scan declare (Event_filled: string="") with 
(
    step s1: true => Event_filled = iff(isempty(Event), s1.Event_filled, Event);
)
```

**Output**

|Ts|Event|Event_filled|
|---|---|---|
|00:00:00|A|A|
|00:01:00||A|
|00:02:00|B|B|
|00:03:00||B|
|00:04:00||B|
|00:06:00|C|C|
|00:08:00||C|
|00:11:00|D|D|
|00:12:00||D|

### Sessions tagging

Divide the input into sessions: a session ends 30 minutes after the first event of the session, after which a new session starts. Note the use of `with_match_id` flag, which assigns a unique value for each distinct match (session) of *scan*. Also note the special use of two *steps* in this example, `inSession` has `true` as condition so it captures and outputs all the records from the input while `endSession` captures records that happen more than 30m from the `sessionStart` value for the current match. The `endSession` step has `output=none` meaning it doesn't produce output records. The `endSession` step is used to advance the state of the current match from `inSession` to `endSession`, allowing a new match (session) to begin, starting from the current record.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA3WQy2rDMBBF9/qKS1Y2qCVt+sLGgT7yBcmulKDYSiOQZaMZtxT68ZVsp3EWkTY6M/fOQ1YzVl/aMaFApTjcndVINpSBTa2pVU4OigzE3rjPFO8C4cxridnzTPZwM4XbCC8jLCK8HeE89RDp9UhPU+VdX3E10uP9UF98iFwM84pfUOMZux9sCIrKGCiVw7fhw7ZWXB62pipIE5nGhScqXVrlw3JjbM3K82nNtHdCJH1HYt3CuPUgDSrfaRRLTL3hy8x+nxhynbXJv/h6qkllGE/iQjI/9dKuGiVoOm47LlzjdBaXu7pgxxKLeZ2L9A9Yk5hPxgEAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Events = datatable (Ts: timespan, Event: string) [
    0m, "A",
    1m, "A",
    2m, "B",
    3m, "D",
    32m, "B",
    36m, "C",
    38m, "D",
    41m, "E",
    75m, "A"
]
;
Events
| sort by Ts asc
| scan with_match_id=session_id declare (sessionStart: timespan) with 
(
    step inSession: true => sessionStart = iff(isnull(inSession.sessionStart), Ts, inSession.sessionStart);
    step endSession output=none: Ts - inSession.sessionStart > 30m;
)
```

**Output**

|Ts|Event|sessionStart|session_id|
|---|---|---|---|
|00:00:00|A|00:00:00|0|
|00:01:00|A|00:00:00|0|
|00:02:00|B|00:00:00|0|
|00:03:00|D|00:00:00|0|
|00:32:00|B|00:32:00|1|
|00:36:00|C|00:32:00|1|
|00:38:00|D|00:32:00|1|
|00:41:00|E|00:32:00|1|
|01:15:00|A|01:15:00|2|

### Events between Start and Stop

Find all sequences of events between the event `Start` and the event `Stop` that occur within 5 minutes. Assign a match ID for each sequence.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA3WPYWvCMBCGv+dXvPOTQidr3cZozYc5/QX6TYbENsxCE0vvcAj+eJM0FR0sgRzPe3fvXRrNWJ20ZYJEpdjdfaMx3lAOro2mVtmkr8hB3NX2Z4KtgDsvJsHoc5QESD2sWXUchcwLiwgzD8sIr33psY387vkrwsdfnzQ4rwbKbs3iWxSiX11cQMeOsT9jQ1BUeqFUFr81H3ZGcXnY1ZU07gkSxDi4EesWlOb9/yDlMLq4S2dD+umWhrLVg+jWCZqb/uwMpy7OJd7Mvc/sccz/LZMrJ20JNJQBAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Events = datatable (Ts: timespan, Event: string) [
    0m, "A",
    1m, "Start",
    2m, "B",
    3m, "D",
    4m, "Stop",
    6m, "C",
    8m, "Start",
    11m, "E",
    12m, "Stop"
]
;
Events
| sort by Ts asc
| scan with_match_id=m_id with 
(
    step s1: Event == "Start";
    step s2: Event != "Start" and Event != "Stop" and Ts - s1.Ts <= 5m;
    step s3: Event == "Stop" and Ts - s1.Ts <= 5m;
)
```

**Output**

|Ts|Event|m_id|
|---|---|---|
|00:01:00|Start|0|
|00:02:00|B|0|
|00:03:00|D|0|
|00:04:00|Stop|0|
|00:08:00|Start|1|
|00:11:00|E|1|
|00:12:00|Stop|1|

### Calculate a custom funnel of events

Calculate a funnel completion of the sequence  `Hail` -> `Tornado` -> `Thunderstorm Wind` by `State` with custom thresholds on the times between the events (`Tornado` within `1h` and `Thunderstorm Wind` within `2h`). This example is similar to the [funnel_sequence_completion plugin](funnel-sequence-completion-plugin.md), but allows greater flexibility.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA2VQsa7CMBDb+QqrEwwgPUZ4HZHYqcR8NNHLSfRSJVeeivh40lBBgQw32D774oP60OwuVjTObmgpKCt7gWPRVdRAav/6Ukj5YnHqcdCEYIb05nlGH3QkglbcWFCsM3NDrEnwz+qmC3lJbQtHfN4gZ1d9a1GWKPYJK7bvunShkPGf0uoBFyAxk/Rl9l29gN8SP+7T0nVibIjD548s5st7wmMQfKeMV70HrcegxThTBV3TUOCrhal9JzrPBS6Gxp6RdzkEW8CEAQAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| partition hint.strategy=native by State 
    (
    sort by StartTime asc
    | scan with 
    (
        step hail: EventType == "Hail";
        step tornado: EventType == "Tornado" and StartTime - hail.StartTime <= 1h;
        step thunderstormWind: EventType == "Thunderstorm Wind" and StartTime - tornado.StartTime <= 2h;
    )
    )
| summarize dcount(State) by EventType
```

**Output**

|EventType|dcount_State|
|---|---|
|Hail|50|
|Tornado|34|
|Thunderstorm Wind|32|

## Scan logic walkthrough

This section demonstrates the [scan logic](#scan-logic) using a step-by-step walkthrough of the [Events between start and stop](#events-between-start-and-stop) example:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA3WPYWvCMBCGv+dXvPOTQidr3cZozYc5/QX6TYbENsxCE0vvcAj+eJM0FR0sgRzPe3fvXRrNWJ20ZYJEpdjdfaMx3lAOro2mVtmkr8hB3NX2Z4KtgDsvJsHoc5QESD2sWXUchcwLiwgzD8sIr33psY387vkrwsdfnzQ4rwbKbs3iWxSiX11cQMeOsT9jQ1BUeqFUFr81H3ZGcXnY1ZU07gkSxDi4EesWlOb9/yDlMLq4S2dD+umWhrLVg+jWCZqb/uwMpy7OJd7Mvc/sccz/LZMrJ20JNJQBAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let Events = datatable (Ts: timespan, Event: string) [
    0m, "A",
    1m, "Start",
    2m, "B",
    3m, "D",
    4m, "Stop",
    6m, "C",
    8m, "Start",
    11m, "E",
    12m, "Stop"
]
;
Events
| sort by Ts asc
| scan with_match_id=m_id with 
(
    step s1: Event == "Start";
    step s2: Event != "Start" and Event != "Stop" and Ts - s1.Ts <= 5m;
    step s3: Event == "Stop" and Ts - s1.Ts <= 5m;
)
```

### The state

The state of the `scan` operator is like a table with a row for each step, in which each step has its own state. A value in the state is represented as *StepName*.*ColumnName*. For example, `s1.Ts` references column `Ts` that belongs to step `s1` in the state of the given step. To learn more, see [State](#state).

For this example, the state can be represented with the following table:

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2||||||X|X|
|s3||||||||

The "X" indicates that a specific field is irrelevant for that step.

### The matching logic

This section follows the [matching logic](#matching-logic) through each input row, explaining the transformation of the state and output at each step. 

#### Row 1

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|0m|"A"|

The first row of the `Events` table can't match `s3` because it doesn't have an active sequence, and the state of `s2` is empty. This row also can't match `s2` because it doesn't have an active sequence, and the state of `s1` is empty. This row doesn't meet the `s1` condition of `Event == "Start"`, so it's discarded without impacting the state or output.

#### Row 2

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|1m|"Start"|

Again, this row can't match `s3` because it doesn't have an active sequence, and the state of `s2` is empty. This row also can't match `s2` because it doesn't have an active sequence, and the state of `s1` is empty. However, this row meets the `s1` condition of `Event == "Start"`. This match initiates a new sequence, and the `m_id` is assigned. The row and its `m_id` are added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1|0|00:01:00|"Start"|X|X|X|X|
|s2||||||X|X|
|s3||||||||

#### Row 3

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|2m|"B"|

This row can't match `s3` because it doesn't have an active sequence, and the state of `s2` is empty. This row meets the `s2` condition of `Ts - s1.Ts < 5m`, and the prior step of `s1` is active. These conditions cause the sequence in `s1` to be promoted to `s2` and the `s1` state to be cleared. The row `00:02:00, "B", 0` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2|0|00:01:00|"Start"|00:02:00|"B"|X|X|
|s3||||||||

#### Row 4 

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|3m|"D"|

This row doesn't meet the `s3` condition of `Event == "Stop"`. However, the row meets the `s2` condition again. This match overrides the existing state of `s2`, and replaces `s2.Ts` and `s2.Event` in the state of the sequence with the values from this row. The row `00:03:00, "D", 0` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2|0|00:01:00|"Start"|00:03:00|"D"|X|X|
|s3||||||||

#### Row 5

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|4m|"Stop"|

This row meets the `s3` condition of `Event == "Stop"`. This match promotes the existing sequence from `s2` to `s3`. The row `00:04:00, "Stop", 0` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2||||||X|X|
|s3|0|00:01:00|"Start"|00:03:00|"D"|00:04:00|"Stop"|

#### Row 6

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|6m|"C"|

Since there's no active sequence in `s1` or `s2`, and the row doesn't meet the conditions of either `s1` or `s3`, this row doesn't match any step and is discarded.

#### Row 7

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|8m|"Start"|

This row starts a new sequence in `s1` with a new match ID. There are now two active sequences in the state. The row `00:08:00, "Start", 1` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1|1|00:08:00|"Start"|X|X|X|X|
|s2||||||X|X|
|s3|0|00:01:00|"Start"|00:03:00|"D"|00:04:00|"Stop"|

#### Row 8


|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|11m|"E"|

This row promotes the sequence from `s1` to `s2` and clears the state of `s1`. The row `00:11:00, "E", 1` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2|1|00:08:00|"Start"|00:11:00|"E"|X|X|
|s3|0|00:01:00|"Start"|00:03:00|"D"|00:04:00|"Stop"|

#### Row 9

|Ts|Event|
|---|---|
|12m|"Stop"|

The last row promotes `s2` to `s3` and clears `s2`, as promoting a sequence gets precedence over continuing an existing sequence. Notice that `s3` is overridden with the values that were promoted from `s2`. The row `00:12:00, "Stop, 1"` is added to the output.

**Updated state**

|step|m_id|s1.Ts|s1.Event|s2.Ts|s2.Event|s3.Ts|s3.Event|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|s1||||X|X|X|X|
|s2||||||X|X|
|s3|1|00:08:00|"Start"|00:11:00|"E"|00:12:00|"Stop"|

#### Final output

|Ts|Event|m_id|
|---|---|---|
|00:01:00|Start|0|
|00:02:00|B|0|
|00:03:00|D|0|
|00:04:00|Stop|0|
|00:08:00|Start|1|
|00:11:00|E|1|
|00:12:00|Stop|1|
