data-explorer/kusto/query/session-count-plugin.md, before:

---
title:  session_count plugin
description: Learn how to use the session_count plugin to calculate the session count based on the ID column over a timeline.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 04/11/2023
---
# session_count plugin

Calculates the session count based on the ID column over a timeline. The plugin is invoked with the [`evaluate`](evaluate-operator.md) operator.

## Syntax

*TabularExpression* `| evaluate` `session_count(`*IdColumn*`,` *TimelineColumn*`,` *Start*`,` *End*`,` *Bin*`,` *LookBackWindow* [`,` *dim1*`,` *dim2*`,` ...]`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *TabularExpression* | string | &check; | The tabular expression that serves as input.|
| *IdColumn* | string | &check; | The name of the column with ID values that represents user activity.|
| *TimelineColumn* | string | &check; | The name of the column that represents the timeline.|
| *Start* | scalar | &check; | The start of the analysis period.|
| *End* | scalar | &check; | The end of the analysis period.|
| *Bin* | scalar | &check; | The session's analysis step period.|
| *LookBackWindow* | scalar | &check; | The session lookback period. If the ID from `IdColumn` appears in a time window within `LookBackWindow`, the session is considered to be an existing one. If the ID doesn't appear, then the session is considered to be new.|
| *dim1*, *dim2*, ... | string | | A list of the dimensions columns that slice the session count calculation.|

## Returns

Returns a table that has the session count values for each timeline period and for each existing dimensions combination.

Output table schema is:

|*TimelineColumn*|dim1|..|dim_n|count_sessions|
|---|---|---|---|---|--|--|--|--|--|--|
|type: as of *TimelineColumn*|..|..|..|long|

## Examples

For this example, the data is deterministic, and we use a table with two columns:

- `Timeline`: a running number from 1 to 10,000
- `Id`: ID of the user from 1 to 50

`Id` appears at the specific `Timeline` slot if it's a divider of `Timeline` (Timeline % Id == 0).

An event with `Id==1` will appear at any `Timeline` slot, an event with `Id==2` at every second `Timeline` slot, and so on.

Here are 20 lines of the data:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA12PzwqDMAzG7z7FdxlsMFAHO40+wGDH3aWzcdY/jdSCE3z4tVM3WS4J+ZJfvjTkkCnpJASsNE/CXbfUaEMoLLdI4Rhp4gO9ow5pBB8T6OXIKGRZTaNfXdsVa4NaGyW0MWSxn5lXtaGdV9QfRqQHsJnrBTeUZDeOdgEkBJJF7ixXlLvvwNHrlyiOcWOuA6ugAUHowQVcSQifRp9/owlslbf4GH8HZJ8HRshed7ImnJI3eyONGCMBAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let _data = range Timeline from 1 to 10000 step 1
    | extend __key = 1
    | join kind=inner (range Id from 1 to 50 step 1 | extend __key=1) on __key
    | where Timeline % Id == 0
    | project Timeline, Id;
// Look on few lines of the data
_data
| order by Timeline asc, Id asc
| take 20
```

**Output**

|Timeline|Id|
|---|---|
|1|1|
|2|1|
|2|2|
|3|1|
|3|3|
|4|1|
|4|2|
|4|4|
|5|1|
|5|5|
|6|1|
|6|2|
|6|3|
|6|6|
|7|1|
|7|7|
|8|1|
|8|2|
|8|4|
|8|8|

Let's define a session in next terms: session considered to be active as long as user (`Id`) appears at least once at a timeframe of 100 time slots, while session look-back window is 41 time slots.

The next query shows the count of active sessions according to the above definition.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA12PzQrCMBCE732KuQgKBRvQg0iOHrx7L6HZarRuSrr+gQ/vWqsUh0CWzO6XnYYEpXfiYJEc7wm7cKYmMKFO8QwDiVip0Am1MBlUT9BdiD3K8kQPnfw+H2NgnAJ7G5gpYfpBbv0ItiwG1B/Gmhkif+oBdztQGi00eYOsRTHYbYpHquTXkKu/zuZzbJQZa/SxPNWBg4TIWZ8z01+vrrk4IXTUdWqUVbywTLc+H6GMnkLVXzkWZqaTSbfVWO+O6uCSvADwRV6RPgEAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let _data = range Timeline from 1 to 9999 step 1
    | extend __key = 1
    | join kind=inner (range Id from 1 to 50 step 1 | extend __key=1) on __key
    | where Timeline % Id == 0
    | project Timeline, Id;
// End of data definition
_data
| evaluate session_count(Id, Timeline, 1, 10000, 100, 41)
| render linechart 
```

:::image type="content" source="media/session-count-plugin/example-session-count.png" alt-text="Example session count." border="false":::

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/query/session-count-plugin.md, after:

---
title:  session_count plugin
description: Learn how to use the session_count plugin to calculate the session count based on the ID column over a timeline.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 04/11/2023
---
# session_count plugin

Calculates the session count based on the ID column over a timeline. The plugin is invoked with the [`evaluate`](evaluate-operator.md) operator.

## Syntax

*TabularExpression* `| evaluate` `session_count(`*IdColumn*`,` *TimelineColumn*`,` *Start*`,` *End*`,` *Bin*`,` *LookBackWindow* [`,` *dim1*`,` *dim2*`,` ...]`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *TabularExpression* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The tabular expression that serves as input.|
| *IdColumn* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The name of the column with ID values that represents user activity.|
| *TimelineColumn* | string |  :heavy_check_mark: | The name of the column that represents the timeline.|
| *Start* | scalar |  :heavy_check_mark: | The start of the analysis period.|
| *End* | scalar |  :heavy_check_mark: | The end of the analysis period.|
| *Bin* | scalar |  :heavy_check_mark: | The session's analysis step period.|
| *LookBackWindow* | scalar |  :heavy_check_mark: | The session lookback period. If the ID from `IdColumn` appears in a time window within `LookBackWindow`, the session is considered to be an existing one. If the ID doesn't appear, then the session is considered to be new.|
| *dim1*, *dim2*, ... | string | | A list of the dimensions columns that slice the session count calculation.|

## Returns

Returns a table that has the session count values for each timeline period and for each existing dimensions combination.

Output table schema is:

|*TimelineColumn*|dim1|..|dim_n|count_sessions|
|---|---|---|---|---|--|--|--|--|--|--|
|type: as of *TimelineColumn*|..|..|..|long|

## Examples

For this example, the data is deterministic, and we use a table with two columns:

- `Timeline`: a running number from 1 to 10,000
- `Id`: ID of the user from 1 to 50

`Id` appears at the specific `Timeline` slot if it's a divider of `Timeline` (Timeline % Id == 0).

An event with `Id==1` will appear at any `Timeline` slot, an event with `Id==2` at every second `Timeline` slot, and so on.

Here are 20 lines of the data:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA12PzwqDMAzG7z7FdxlsMFAHO40+wGDH3aWzcdY/jdSCE3z4tVM3WS4J+ZJfvjTkkCnpJASsNE/CXbfUaEMoLLdI4Rhp4gO9ow5pBB8T6OXIKGRZTaNfXdsVa4NaGyW0MWSxn5lXtaGdV9QfRqQHsJnrBTeUZDeOdgEkBJJF7ixXlLvvwNHrlyiOcWOuA6ugAUHowQVcSQifRp9/owlslbf4GH8HZJ8HRshed7ImnJI3eyONGCMBAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let _data = range Timeline from 1 to 10000 step 1
    | extend __key = 1
    | join kind=inner (range Id from 1 to 50 step 1 | extend __key=1) on __key
    | where Timeline % Id == 0
    | project Timeline, Id;
// Look on few lines of the data
_data
| order by Timeline asc, Id asc
| take 20
```

**Output**

|Timeline|Id|
|---|---|
|1|1|
|2|1|
|2|2|
|3|1|
|3|3|
|4|1|
|4|2|
|4|4|
|5|1|
|5|5|
|6|1|
|6|2|
|6|3|
|6|6|
|7|1|
|7|7|
|8|1|
|8|2|
|8|4|
|8|8|

Let's define a session in next terms: session considered to be active as long as user (`Id`) appears at least once at a timeframe of 100 time slots, while session look-back window is 41 time slots.

The next query shows the count of active sessions according to the above definition.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA12PzQrCMBCE732KuQgKBRvQg0iOHrx7L6HZarRuSrr+gQ/vWqsUh0CWzO6XnYYEpXfiYJEc7wm7cKYmMKFO8QwDiVip0Am1MBlUT9BdiD3K8kQPnfw+H2NgnAJ7G5gpYfpBbv0ItiwG1B/Gmhkif+oBdztQGi00eYOsRTHYbYpHquTXkKu/zuZzbJQZa/SxPNWBg4TIWZ8z01+vrrk4IXTUdWqUVbywTLc+H6GMnkLVXzkWZqaTSbfVWO+O6uCSvADwRV6RPgEAAA==" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
let _data = range Timeline from 1 to 9999 step 1
    | extend __key = 1
    | join kind=inner (range Id from 1 to 50 step 1 | extend __key=1) on __key
    | where Timeline % Id == 0
    | project Timeline, Id;
// End of data definition
_data
| evaluate session_count(Id, Timeline, 1, 10000, 100, 41)
| render linechart 
```

:::image type="content" source="media/session-count-plugin/example-session-count.png" alt-text="Example session count." border="false":::
