data-explorer/kusto/query/topnestedoperator.md, before:

---
title:  top-nested operator
description: Learn how to use the top-nested operator to produce a hierarchical aggregation.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 08/10/2023
---
# top-nested operator

The top-nested operator performs hierarchical aggregation and value selection.

Imagine you have a table with sales information like countries, salespeople, and amounts sold. The top-nested operator can help you answer complex questions like, "What are the top five countries by sales, and who are the top three salespeople in each of those countries?"

The operator starts by separating the input records into partitions based on the first aggregation clause. The data is grouped according to the specified criteria, such as country. Then, the operator then selects the top records within each partition using a specific calculation, such as adding up sales amounts. These top records can be determined by ascending or descending order.

Then, the subsequent aggregation clause is applied to each partition. This initiates a nested aggregation process, further refining the data within each partition. This iterative procedure continues for all successive aggregation clauses, forming a hierarchy of increasingly precise groupings.

The result is a table with two columns for each aggregation clause. One column contains the distinct values utilized for partitioning the table, such as countries, while the other column contains the outcome of the aggregation calculation, such as the total sales.

## Syntax

*T*  
`|` `top-nested` [ *N* ] `of` *Expr* [`with` `others` `=` *ConstExpr*] `by` *Aggregation* [`asc` | `desc`] [`,`  
&emsp;`top-nested` ... ]

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
|*T*|string|&check;|The input tabular expression.|
|*N*|int||The number of top values to be returned for this hierarchy level. If omitted, all distinct values are returned.|
|*Expr*|string|&check;|An expression over the input record indicating which value to return for this hierarchy level. Typically, it refers to a column from *T* or involves a calculation like [bin()](binfunction.md) on a column. Optionally, set an output column name as *Name* `=` *Expr*.|
|*ConstExpr*|string||If specified, for each hierarchy level, one record will be added with the value that is the aggregation over all records that didn't make it to the top.|
|*Aggregation*|string||The aggregation function applied to records with the same *Expr* value. The result determines the top records. See [Supported aggregation functions](#supported-aggregation-functions). Optionally, set an output column name as *Name* `=` *Aggregation*.|

### Supported aggregation functions

The following aggregation functions are supported:

* [sum()](sum-aggfunction.md)
* [count()](count-aggfunction.md)
* [max()](max-aggfunction.md)
* [min()](min-aggfunction.md)
* [dcount()](dcountif-aggfunction.md)
* [avg()](avg-aggfunction.md)
* [percentile()](percentiles-aggfunction.md)
* [percentilew()](percentiles-aggfunction.md)

> [!NOTE]
> Any algebraic combination of the aggregations is also supported.

## Returns

This operator returns a table with two columns for each clause. One column contains unique values computed using *Expr*, and the other column shows the results obtained from the *Aggregation* calculation.

## Performance considerations

Input columns that aren't specified as *Expr* values aren't outputted.
To get all values at a certain level, add an aggregation count that:

* Omits the value of *N*
* Uses the column name as the value of *Expr*
* Uses `Ignore=max(1)` as the aggregation, and then ignore (or project-away)
   the column `Ignore`.

The number of records may grow exponentially with the number of aggregation clauses
((N1+1) \* (N2+1) \* ...). Record growth is even faster if no *N* limit is specified. Take into account that this operator may consume a considerable amount of resources.

If the distribution of the aggregation is considerably non-uniform,
limit the number of distinct values to return (by using *N*) and use the
`with others=` *ConstExpr* option to get an indication for the "weight" of all other
cases.

## Examples

The following query partitions the `StormEvents` table by the `State` column and calculates the total latitude for each state. The query selects the top 2 states with the highest latitude sum. Within these top 2 states, the query groups the data by `Source` and selects the top 3 sources with the highest latitude sum. For each of the top 3 sources in the top 2 states, the query groups the data by `EndLocation` and selects the `EndLocation` with the highest latitude sum.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA42OSw6CQBAF957iLTVRCXIDIzt2eIGWaZUEugnTmJh4ePnMgviJvnWl6uWmbZ3eWMzjz0URDmQEr11b8HbxgGmzEfbGDjvoGbmRcaBPd/iuXu75UkpGtloHxVGbHh5JP0CmRhUqstI611sxtyajdez9tiaB/KBFKWAqrlP3JRIPkVRcpkWPq7xFMIvEr+S30HSaxIXmE8PE8rpxAQAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents                                        // Data source.
| top-nested 2 of State       by sum(BeginLat),    // Top 2 States by total latitude.
  top-nested 3 of Source      by sum(BeginLat),    // Top 3 Sources by total latitude in each State.
  top-nested 1 of EndLocation by sum(BeginLat)     // Top 1 EndLocation by total latitude in each Source and State.
```

**Output**

|State|aggregated_State|Source|aggregated_Source|EndLocation|aggregated_EndLocation|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Law Enforcement|18744.823|FT SCOTT|264.858|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|BUCKLIN|488.2457|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Public|13650.9079|AMARILLO|246.2598|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|PERRYTON|289.3178|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Trained Spotter|13997.7124|CLAUDE|421.44|

Use the option 'with others':

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSsp5qpRKMkv0M1LLS5JTVEwUshPUwguSSxJVSjPLMlQyC/JSC0qVrBVUHLMyVHwB/Eg0sVKCkmVCsWluRpOqemZeT6JJZo6XArIRhmDjcovLUpOJaTUEKTUNS/FJz85sSQzPw+33UBFCjBVWJwAABtuhnPYAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| top-nested 2 of State with others = "All Other States" by sum(BeginLat),
  top-nested 3 of Source by sum(BeginLat),
  top-nested 1 of EndLocation with others = "All Other End Locations" by sum(BeginLat)
```

**Output**

|State|aggregated_State|Source|aggregated_Source|EndLocation|aggregated_EndLocation|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Law Enforcement|18744.823|FT SCOTT|264.858|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|BUCKLIN|488.2457|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Public|13650.9079|AMARILLO|246.2598|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|PERRYTON|289.3178|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Trained Spotter|13997.7124|CLAUDE|421.44|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Law Enforcement|18744.823|All Other End Locations|18479.965|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|All Other End Locations|22367.3749|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|All Other End Locations|20890.9679|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Public|13650.9079|All Other End Locations|13404.6481|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|All Other End Locations|36939.2788|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Trained Spotter|13997.7124|All Other End Locations|13576.2724|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|||All Other End Locations|24891.0836|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|||All Other End Locations|58523.2932000001|
|All Other States|1149279.5923|||All Other End Locations|1149279.5923|

The following query shows the same results for the first level used in the example above.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSsp5qpRKM9ILUpVCC5JLElVUMzMU9BQD3GNcAxW11FQ93b0CwayNIGqiktzcxOLMqtSQSwNp9T0zDyfxBJNAPC7f85LAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| where State !in ('TEXAS', 'KANSAS')
| summarize sum(BeginLat)
```

**Output**

|sum_BeginLat|
|---|
|1149279.5923|

Request another column (EventType) to the top-nested result.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA43OMQ6CQBQE0J5TTAmJFNjbmNDR4QW+y9dgsvs3u4NK4uEVKC102nmZTE9Lvr1rYC5eoMU6aKYO2MMu6ClUbDnPyJMvj3odQyesdgW+vU3J6V++WXwbhs6ccLTwy2P1y9HTHHXbp484wMuzbKrP+5jspo61PGTt3mt/gc7cAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| top-nested 2 of State       by sum(BeginLat),
  top-nested 2 of Source      by sum(BeginLat),
  top-nested 1 of EndLocation by sum(BeginLat),
  top-nested   of EventType   by tmp = max(1)
| project-away tmp
```

**Output**

|State|aggregated_State|Source|aggregated_Source|EndLocation|aggregated_EndLocation|EventType|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|Thunderstorm Wind|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|Hail|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|Tornado|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|BUCKLIN|488.2457|Hail|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|BUCKLIN|488.2457|Thunderstorm Wind|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|BUCKLIN|488.2457|Flood|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Trained Spotter|13997.7124|CLAUDE|421.44|Hail|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|PERRYTON|289.3178|Hail|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|PERRYTON|289.3178|Flood|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|PERRYTON|289.3178|Flash Flood|

Give an index sort order for each value in this level (per group) to sort the result by the last nested level (in this example by EndLocation):

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA4WPwYoCMQyG7z5FjjPQAV326kXw5m0eYIjTbC3aVtKM6OLDm7KrVlzYHNP///K1l8RhfaIoeXYFSccuUhay8AHpC3pBIYDtBfIUmhU5HzcorQGdt2yaeKR/s58lu452k0YUn2IpvDbUI7ElLi8/AuYXbgCdY3K6s0PF0IYSArL/ppqdYQkB9zQcfJamejCwmOu0Sqbntp/Ca+Pva4/y3e+upxp0FgWCj9aPngqNMTpq5qrOjJfhQNHJrnbJLXSwUGj5eDh1dD6iIurEm6V5XLgB1CPS3MABAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| top-nested 2 of State  by sum(BeginLat),    top-nested 2 of Source by sum(BeginLat),    top-nested 4 of EndLocation by  sum(BeginLat)
| order by State , Source, aggregated_EndLocation
| summarize EndLocations = make_list(EndLocation, 10000) , endLocationSums = make_list(aggregated_EndLocation, 10000) by State, Source
| extend indicies = range(0, array_length(EndLocations) - 1, 1)
| mv-expand EndLocations, endLocationSums, indicies
```

**Output**

|State|Source|EndLocations|endLocationSums|indices|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|TEXAS|Trained Spotter|CLAUDE|421.44|0|
|TEXAS|Trained Spotter|AMARILLO|316.8892|1|
|TEXAS|Trained Spotter|DALHART|252.6186|2|
|TEXAS|Trained Spotter|PERRYTON|216.7826|3|
|TEXAS|Law Enforcement|PERRYTON|289.3178|0|
|TEXAS|Law Enforcement|LEAKEY|267.9825|1|
|TEXAS|Law Enforcement|BRACKETTVILLE|264.3483|2|
|TEXAS|Law Enforcement|GILMER|261.9068|3|
|KANSAS|Trained Spotter|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|0|
|KANSAS|Trained Spotter|ATWOOD|358.6136|1|
|KANSAS|Trained Spotter|LENORA|317.0718|2|
|KANSAS|Trained Spotter|SCOTT CITY|307.84|3|
|KANSAS|Public|BUCKLIN|488.2457|0|
|KANSAS|Public|ASHLAND|446.4218|1|
|KANSAS|Public|PROTECTION|446.11|2|
|KANSAS|Public|MEADE STATE PARK|371.1|3|

The following example returns the two most-recent events
for each US state, with some information per event.
Note the use of the `max(1)` (which is then projected away)
for columns which just require propagation through the operator
without any selection logic.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA22PMQ7CMAxF957CI6BWomVm7NC5XCDEBhUpceRYBSQOTwoFAmL1f0//u1cW147kNRY3UA6Vp6iEwAfo1SjB/grd0bPQeuvMZVEvywJysJlR0d3gMrx+4O/gV0tS6/Fbaf43TGgYIiN1+IE3M5xmB+ETWa3M2bzSVTqzIMkkPB8x0ZbZUKRo7wy+F8H+AAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| top-nested of State by Ignore0=max(1),
  top-nested 2 of StartTime by Ignore1=max(StartTime),
  top-nested of EndTime by Ignore2=max(1),
  top-nested of EpisodeId by Ignore3=max(1)
| project-away Ignore*
| order by State asc, StartTime desc
```

### Retrieve the latest records per identity

If you have a table with an ID column and a timestamp column, you can use the top-nested operator to query the latest two records for each unique value of ID. The latest records are defined by the highest value of timestamp.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA43QzW4CIRAH8DtPMeG0JmyyYLVq4sV48RlMD2PBigpscIya+PCFZpc2JrYNBAL5/fkYjZTa5mgqq2dwomj9hwCyzpwIXTsDjWTyUkCgnYkrvw3RIdngez4AALZmaQS+wIgHLkqqUo0c1Y1MfSCASy6eu/G3U7+51+xUk92wd8vg8aifw5e/oZxkOPoHnGY45uyN3YFCW/tUK6MhbMFq2NxAn527NXOH1yr/BtgPpDIr5S1afumy/5hKmcfql6jqLkqPaWPYm3eq8YL9K0R3fjerT8+D6uvwAQAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
datatable(id: string, timestamp: datetime, otherInformation: string)   
[
    "Barak", datetime(2015-01-01), "1",
    "Barak", datetime(2016-01-01), "2",
    "Barak", datetime(2017-01-20), "3",
    "Donald", datetime(2017-01-20), "4",
    "Donald", datetime(2017-01-18), "5",
    "Donald", datetime(2017-01-19), "6"
]
| top-nested of id by dummy0=max(1),  
top-nested 2 of timestamp by dummy1=max(timestamp),  
top-nested of otherInformation by dummy2=max(1)
| project-away dummy0, dummy1, dummy2 
```

**Output**

| id | timestamp | otherInformation |
|---|---|---|
| Barak | 2016-01-01T00:00:00Z | 2 |
| Donald | 2017-01-19T00:00:00Z | 6 |
| Barak | 2017-01-20T00:00:00Z | 3 |
| Donald | 2017-01-20T00:00:00Z | 4 |

Here's a step-by-step explanation of the query:

1. The `datatable` creates a test dataset.
1. The first `top-nested` clause returns all distinct values of `id`.
1. The second `top-nested` clause selects the top two records with the highest `timestamp` for each id.
1. The third `top-nested` clause adds the `otherInformation` column for each record.
1. The `project-away` operator removes the dummy columns introduced by the top-nested operator.

Commit message:

improve the explanation for with others query

data-explorer/kusto/query/topnestedoperator.md, after:

---
title:  top-nested operator
description: Learn how to use the top-nested operator to produce a hierarchical aggregation.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 08/10/2023
---
# top-nested operator

The top-nested operator performs hierarchical aggregation and value selection.

Imagine you have a table with sales information like countries, salespeople, and amounts sold. The top-nested operator can help you answer complex questions like, "What are the top five countries by sales, and who are the top three salespeople in each of those countries?"

The operator starts by separating the input records into partitions based on the first aggregation clause. The data is grouped according to the specified criteria, such as country. Then, the operator then selects the top records within each partition using a specific calculation, such as adding up sales amounts. These top records can be determined by ascending or descending order.

Then, the subsequent aggregation clause is applied to each partition. This initiates a nested aggregation process, further refining the data within each partition. This iterative procedure continues for all successive aggregation clauses, forming a hierarchy of increasingly precise groupings.

The result is a table with two columns for each aggregation clause. One column contains the distinct values utilized for partitioning the table, such as countries, while the other column contains the outcome of the aggregation calculation, such as the total sales.

## Syntax

*T*  
`|` `top-nested` [ *N* ] `of` *Expr* [`with` `others` `=` *ConstExpr*] `by` *Aggregation* [`asc` | `desc`] [`,`  
&emsp;`top-nested` ... ]

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

|Name|Type|Required|Description|
|--|--|--|--|
|*T*|string|&check;|The input tabular expression.|
|*N*|int||The number of top values to be returned for this hierarchy level. If omitted, all distinct values are returned.|
|*Expr*|string|&check;|An expression over the input record indicating which value to return for this hierarchy level. Typically, it refers to a column from *T* or involves a calculation like [bin()](binfunction.md) on a column. Optionally, set an output column name as *Name* `=` *Expr*.|
|*ConstExpr*|string||If specified, for each hierarchy level, one record will be added with the value that is the aggregation over all records that didn't make it to the top.|
|*Aggregation*|string||The aggregation function applied to records with the same *Expr* value. The result determines the top records. See [Supported aggregation functions](#supported-aggregation-functions). Optionally, set an output column name as *Name* `=` *Aggregation*.|

### Supported aggregation functions

The following aggregation functions are supported:

* [sum()](sum-aggfunction.md)
* [count()](count-aggfunction.md)
* [max()](max-aggfunction.md)
* [min()](min-aggfunction.md)
* [dcount()](dcountif-aggfunction.md)
* [avg()](avg-aggfunction.md)
* [percentile()](percentiles-aggfunction.md)
* [percentilew()](percentiles-aggfunction.md)

> [!NOTE]
> Any algebraic combination of the aggregations is also supported.

## Returns

This operator returns a table with two columns for each clause. One column contains unique values computed using *Expr*, and the other column shows the results obtained from the *Aggregation* calculation.

## Performance considerations

Input columns that aren't specified as *Expr* values aren't outputted.
To get all values at a certain level, add an aggregation count that:

* Omits the value of *N*
* Uses the column name as the value of *Expr*
* Uses `Ignore=max(1)` as the aggregation, and then ignore (or project-away)
   the column `Ignore`.

The number of records may grow exponentially with the number of aggregation clauses
((N1+1) \* (N2+1) \* ...). Record growth is even faster if no *N* limit is specified. Take into account that this operator may consume a considerable amount of resources.

If the distribution of the aggregation is considerably non-uniform,
limit the number of distinct values to return (by using *N*) and use the
`with others=` *ConstExpr* option to get an indication for the "weight" of all other
cases.

## Examples

The following query partitions the `StormEvents` table by the `State` column and calculates the total latitude for each state. The query selects the top 2 states with the highest latitude sum. Within these top 2 states, the query groups the data by `Source` and selects the top 3 sources with the highest latitude sum. For each of the top 3 sources in the top 2 states, the query groups the data by `EndLocation` and selects the `EndLocation` with the highest latitude sum.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA42OSw6CQBAF957iLTVRCXIDIzt2eIGWaZUEugnTmJh4ePnMgviJvnWl6uWmbZ3eWMzjz0URDmQEr11b8HbxgGmzEfbGDjvoGbmRcaBPd/iuXu75UkpGtloHxVGbHh5JP0CmRhUqstI611sxtyajdez9tiaB/KBFKWAqrlP3JRIPkVRcpkWPq7xFMIvEr+S30HSaxIXmE8PE8rpxAQAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents                                        // Data source.
| top-nested 2 of State       by sum(BeginLat),    // Top 2 States by total latitude.
  top-nested 3 of Source      by sum(BeginLat),    // Top 3 Sources by total latitude in each State.
  top-nested 1 of EndLocation by sum(BeginLat)     // Top 1 EndLocation by total latitude in each Source and State.
```

**Output**

|State|aggregated_State|Source|aggregated_Source|EndLocation|aggregated_EndLocation|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Law Enforcement|18744.823|FT SCOTT|264.858|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|BUCKLIN|488.2457|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Public|13650.9079|AMARILLO|246.2598|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|PERRYTON|289.3178|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Trained Spotter|13997.7124|CLAUDE|421.44|

This query showcases the `with` `others` specification in action. When incorporated within a `top-nested` clause, the `with` `others` specification introduces an extra record that aggregates data excluded from the top results. In the provided example, an extra record emerges in the `State` and `aggregated_State` columns, representing the collective latitude of all states except Kansas and Texas. Moreover, the `EndLocation` and `aggregated_EndLocation` column reveals an extra 9 records. These records show the combined latitude of end locations not qualifying as the top location within each state and source.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSsp5qpRKMkv0M1LLS5JTVEwUshPUwguSSxJVSjPLMlQyC/JSC0qVrBVUHLMyVHwB/Eg0sVKCkmVCsWluRpOqemZeT6JJZo6XArIRhmDjcovLUpOJaTUEKTUNS/FJz85sSQzPw+33UBFCjBVWJwAABtuhnPYAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| top-nested 2 of State with others = "All Other States" by sum(BeginLat),
  top-nested 3 of Source by sum(BeginLat),
  top-nested 1 of EndLocation with others = "All Other End Locations" by sum(BeginLat)
```

**Output**

|State|aggregated_State|Source|aggregated_Source|EndLocation|aggregated_EndLocation|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Law Enforcement|18744.823|FT SCOTT|264.858|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|BUCKLIN|488.2457|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Public|13650.9079|AMARILLO|246.2598|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|PERRYTON|289.3178|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Trained Spotter|13997.7124|CLAUDE|421.44|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Law Enforcement|18744.823|All Other End Locations|18479.965|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|All Other End Locations|22367.3749|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|All Other End Locations|20890.9679|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Public|13650.9079|All Other End Locations|13404.6481|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|All Other End Locations|36939.2788|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Trained Spotter|13997.7124|All Other End Locations|13576.2724|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|||All Other End Locations|24891.0836|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|||All Other End Locations|58523.2932000001|
|All Other States|1149279.5923|||All Other End Locations|1149279.5923|

The following query shows the same results for the first level used in the example above.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAAwsuyS/KdS1LzSsp5qpRKM9ILUpVCC5JLElVUMzMU9BQD3GNcAxW11FQ93b0CwayNIGqiktzcxOLMqtSQSwNp9T0zDyfxBJNAPC7f85LAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| where State !in ('TEXAS', 'KANSAS')
| summarize sum(BeginLat)
```

**Output**

|sum_BeginLat|
|---|
|1149279.5923|

Request another column (EventType) to the top-nested result.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA43OMQ6CQBQE0J5TTAmJFNjbmNDR4QW+y9dgsvs3u4NK4uEVKC102nmZTE9Lvr1rYC5eoMU6aKYO2MMu6ClUbDnPyJMvj3odQyesdgW+vU3J6V++WXwbhs6ccLTwy2P1y9HTHHXbp484wMuzbKrP+5jspo61PGTt3mt/gc7cAAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| top-nested 2 of State       by sum(BeginLat),
  top-nested 2 of Source      by sum(BeginLat),
  top-nested 1 of EndLocation by sum(BeginLat),
  top-nested   of EventType   by tmp = max(1)
| project-away tmp
```

**Output**

|State|aggregated_State|Source|aggregated_Source|EndLocation|aggregated_EndLocation|EventType|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|Thunderstorm Wind|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|Hail|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Trained Spotter|21279.7083|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|Tornado|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|BUCKLIN|488.2457|Hail|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|BUCKLIN|488.2457|Thunderstorm Wind|
|KANSAS|87771.2355000001|Public|22855.6206|BUCKLIN|488.2457|Flood|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Trained Spotter|13997.7124|CLAUDE|421.44|Hail|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|PERRYTON|289.3178|Hail|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|PERRYTON|289.3178|Flood|
|TEXAS|123400.5101|Law Enforcement|37228.5966|PERRYTON|289.3178|Flash Flood|

Give an index sort order for each value in this level (per group) to sort the result by the last nested level (in this example by EndLocation):

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA4WPwYoCMQyG7z5FjjPQAV326kXw5m0eYIjTbC3aVtKM6OLDm7KrVlzYHNP///K1l8RhfaIoeXYFSccuUhay8AHpC3pBIYDtBfIUmhU5HzcorQGdt2yaeKR/s58lu452k0YUn2IpvDbUI7ElLi8/AuYXbgCdY3K6s0PF0IYSArL/ppqdYQkB9zQcfJamejCwmOu0Sqbntp/Ca+Pva4/y3e+upxp0FgWCj9aPngqNMTpq5qrOjJfhQNHJrnbJLXSwUGj5eDh1dD6iIurEm6V5XLgB1CPS3MABAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| top-nested 2 of State  by sum(BeginLat),    top-nested 2 of Source by sum(BeginLat),    top-nested 4 of EndLocation by  sum(BeginLat)
| order by State , Source, aggregated_EndLocation
| summarize EndLocations = make_list(EndLocation, 10000) , endLocationSums = make_list(aggregated_EndLocation, 10000) by State, Source
| extend indicies = range(0, array_length(EndLocations) - 1, 1)
| mv-expand EndLocations, endLocationSums, indicies
```

**Output**

|State|Source|EndLocations|endLocationSums|indices|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|TEXAS|Trained Spotter|CLAUDE|421.44|0|
|TEXAS|Trained Spotter|AMARILLO|316.8892|1|
|TEXAS|Trained Spotter|DALHART|252.6186|2|
|TEXAS|Trained Spotter|PERRYTON|216.7826|3|
|TEXAS|Law Enforcement|PERRYTON|289.3178|0|
|TEXAS|Law Enforcement|LEAKEY|267.9825|1|
|TEXAS|Law Enforcement|BRACKETTVILLE|264.3483|2|
|TEXAS|Law Enforcement|GILMER|261.9068|3|
|KANSAS|Trained Spotter|SHARON SPGS|388.7404|0|
|KANSAS|Trained Spotter|ATWOOD|358.6136|1|
|KANSAS|Trained Spotter|LENORA|317.0718|2|
|KANSAS|Trained Spotter|SCOTT CITY|307.84|3|
|KANSAS|Public|BUCKLIN|488.2457|0|
|KANSAS|Public|ASHLAND|446.4218|1|
|KANSAS|Public|PROTECTION|446.11|2|
|KANSAS|Public|MEADE STATE PARK|371.1|3|

The following example returns the two most-recent events
for each US state, with some information per event.
Note the use of the `max(1)` (which is then projected away)
for columns which just require propagation through the operator
without any selection logic.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA22PMQ7CMAxF957CI6BWomVm7NC5XCDEBhUpceRYBSQOTwoFAmL1f0//u1cW147kNRY3UA6Vp6iEwAfo1SjB/grd0bPQeuvMZVEvywJysJlR0d3gMrx+4O/gV0tS6/Fbaf43TGgYIiN1+IE3M5xmB+ETWa3M2bzSVTqzIMkkPB8x0ZbZUKRo7wy+F8H+AAAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
StormEvents
| top-nested of State by Ignore0=max(1),
  top-nested 2 of StartTime by Ignore1=max(StartTime),
  top-nested of EndTime by Ignore2=max(1),
  top-nested of EpisodeId by Ignore3=max(1)
| project-away Ignore*
| order by State asc, StartTime desc
```

### Retrieve the latest records per identity

If you have a table with an ID column and a timestamp column, you can use the top-nested operator to query the latest two records for each unique value of ID. The latest records are defined by the highest value of timestamp.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA43QzW4CIRAH8DtPMeG0JmyyYLVq4sV48RlMD2PBigpscIya+PCFZpc2JrYNBAL5/fkYjZTa5mgqq2dwomj9hwCyzpwIXTsDjWTyUkCgnYkrvw3RIdngez4AALZmaQS+wIgHLkqqUo0c1Y1MfSCASy6eu/G3U7+51+xUk92wd8vg8aifw5e/oZxkOPoHnGY45uyN3YFCW/tUK6MhbMFq2NxAn527NXOH1yr/BtgPpDIr5S1afumy/5hKmcfql6jqLkqPaWPYm3eq8YL9K0R3fjerT8+D6uvwAQAA" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
datatable(id: string, timestamp: datetime, otherInformation: string)   
[
    "Barak", datetime(2015-01-01), "1",
    "Barak", datetime(2016-01-01), "2",
    "Barak", datetime(2017-01-20), "3",
    "Donald", datetime(2017-01-20), "4",
    "Donald", datetime(2017-01-18), "5",
    "Donald", datetime(2017-01-19), "6"
]
| top-nested of id by dummy0=max(1),  
top-nested 2 of timestamp by dummy1=max(timestamp),  
top-nested of otherInformation by dummy2=max(1)
| project-away dummy0, dummy1, dummy2 
```

**Output**

| id | timestamp | otherInformation |
|---|---|---|
| Barak | 2016-01-01T00:00:00Z | 2 |
| Donald | 2017-01-19T00:00:00Z | 6 |
| Barak | 2017-01-20T00:00:00Z | 3 |
| Donald | 2017-01-20T00:00:00Z | 4 |

Here's a step-by-step explanation of the query:

1. The `datatable` creates a test dataset.
1. The first `top-nested` clause returns all distinct values of `id`.
1. The second `top-nested` clause selects the top two records with the highest `timestamp` for each id.
1. The third `top-nested` clause adds the `otherInformation` column for each record.
1. The `project-away` operator removes the dummy columns introduced by the top-nested operator.
