data-explorer/kusto/query/welch-test-function.md, before:

---
title:  welch_test()
description: Learn how to use the welch_test() function to compute the p_value of the Welch-test.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/02/2023
---
# welch_test()

Computes the p_value of the [Welch-test function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welch%27s_t-test)

## Syntax

`welch_test(`*mean1*`,` *variance1*`,` *count1*`,` *mean2*`,` *variance2*`,` *count2*`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *mean1* | real or long | &check; | The mean (average) value of the first series.|
| *variance1* | real or long | &check; | The variance value of the first series.|
| *count1* | real or long | &check; | The count of values in the first series.|
| *mean2* | real or long | &check; | The mean (average) value of the second series.|
| *variance2* | real or long | &check; | The variance value of the second series.|
| *count2* | real or long | &check; | The count of values in the second series.|

## Returns

From [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welch%27s_t-test):

In statistics, Welch's t-test is a two-sample location test that's used to test the hypothesis that two populations have equal means.
Welch's t-test is an adaptation of Student's t-test, and is more reliable when the two samples have unequal variances and unequal sample sizes. These tests are often referred to as "unpaired" or "independent samples" t-tests.
The tests are typically applied when the statistical units underlying the two samples being compared are non-overlapping.
Welch's t-test is less popular than Student's t-test, and may be less familiar to readers. The test is also called "Welch's unequal variances t-test", or "unequal variances t-test".

## Example

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA2WP3UrEMBCF7xf2HXKZQgydsT/uRV7DGxGJadRCk5ZtGnfFhzeTqBTNxWE4fOfMZDmPPhwPLL0VmGLD1Ws3Gv6AvWwFQ5C1YHAixVvZpbnPTi9PSTtSrCVkkmYkJpGQU91vFmSftXmsxPc6/LMOcrzOhXe5pNkpHdNmvzBNnmuJu9WloZzUZiatOx4+mYs39rJoP9Anw8zCdbHzCx/m7XmylaBb/rmUWzfn9Hn8sMyB0vGVr5DoCComV3tji2FAmXnzgafZYQGRQNyBZBj8AandXoJNJy33etqsereTeXsKdg3cgYggDAiHIqIwWH0B4CiCU6cBAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
// s1, s2 values are from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welch%27s_t-test
print
    s1 = dynamic([27.5, 21.0, 19.0, 23.6, 17.0, 17.9, 16.9, 20.1, 21.9, 22.6, 23.1, 19.6, 19.0, 21.7, 21.4]),
    s2 = dynamic([27.1, 22.0, 20.8, 23.4, 23.4, 23.5, 25.8, 22.0, 24.8, 20.2, 21.9, 22.1, 22.9, 20.5, 24.4])
| mv-expand s1 to typeof(double), s2 to typeof(double)
| summarize m1=avg(s1), v1=variance(s1), c1=count(), m2=avg(s2), v2=variance(s2), c2=count()
| extend pValue=welch_test(m1,v1,c1,m2,v2,c2)
// pValue = 0.021
```

Commit message:

Bulk update: replace &check; with :heavy_check_mark:

data-explorer/kusto/query/welch-test-function.md, after:

---
title:  welch_test()
description: Learn how to use the welch_test() function to compute the p_value of the Welch-test.
ms.reviewer: alexans
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 03/02/2023
---
# welch_test()

Computes the p_value of the [Welch-test function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welch%27s_t-test)

## Syntax

`welch_test(`*mean1*`,` *variance1*`,` *count1*`,` *mean2*`,` *variance2*`,` *count2*`)`

[!INCLUDE [syntax-conventions-note](../../includes/syntax-conventions-note.md)]

## Parameters

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|--|--|--|--|
| *mean1* | real or long |  :heavy_check_mark: | The mean (average) value of the first series.|
| *variance1* | real or long |  :heavy_check_mark: | The variance value of the first series.|
| *count1* | real or long |  :heavy_check_mark: | The count of values in the first series.|
| *mean2* | real or long |  :heavy_check_mark: | The mean (average) value of the second series.|
| *variance2* | real or long |  :heavy_check_mark: | The variance value of the second series.|
| *count2* | real or long |  :heavy_check_mark: | The count of values in the second series.|

## Returns

From [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welch%27s_t-test):

In statistics, Welch's t-test is a two-sample location test that's used to test the hypothesis that two populations have equal means.
Welch's t-test is an adaptation of Student's t-test, and is more reliable when the two samples have unequal variances and unequal sample sizes. These tests are often referred to as "unpaired" or "independent samples" t-tests.
The tests are typically applied when the statistical units underlying the two samples being compared are non-overlapping.
Welch's t-test is less popular than Student's t-test, and may be less familiar to readers. The test is also called "Welch's unequal variances t-test", or "unequal variances t-test".

## Example

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> <a href="https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help/databases/Samples?query=H4sIAAAAAAAAA2WP3UrEMBCF7xf2HXKZQgydsT/uRV7DGxGJadRCk5ZtGnfFhzeTqBTNxWE4fOfMZDmPPhwPLL0VmGLD1Ws3Gv6AvWwFQ5C1YHAixVvZpbnPTi9PSTtSrCVkkmYkJpGQU91vFmSftXmsxPc6/LMOcrzOhXe5pNkpHdNmvzBNnmuJu9WloZzUZiatOx4+mYs39rJoP9Anw8zCdbHzCx/m7XmylaBb/rmUWzfn9Hn8sMyB0vGVr5DoCComV3tji2FAmXnzgafZYQGRQNyBZBj8AandXoJNJy33etqsereTeXsKdg3cgYggDAiHIqIwWH0B4CiCU6cBAAA=" target="_blank">Run the query</a>

```kusto
// s1, s2 values are from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Welch%27s_t-test
print
    s1 = dynamic([27.5, 21.0, 19.0, 23.6, 17.0, 17.9, 16.9, 20.1, 21.9, 22.6, 23.1, 19.6, 19.0, 21.7, 21.4]),
    s2 = dynamic([27.1, 22.0, 20.8, 23.4, 23.4, 23.5, 25.8, 22.0, 24.8, 20.2, 21.9, 22.1, 22.9, 20.5, 24.4])
| mv-expand s1 to typeof(double), s2 to typeof(double)
| summarize m1=avg(s1), v1=variance(s1), c1=count(), m2=avg(s2), v2=variance(s2), c2=count()
| extend pValue=welch_test(m1,v1,c1,m2,v2,c2)
// pValue = 0.021
```
