data-explorer/includes/ingestion-properties.md, before:

---
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 07/17/2022
---

## Ingestion properties

The following table lists the properties supported by Azure Data Explorer, describes them, and provides examples:

|Property              |Description                                              |Example                                             |
|----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
|`ingestionMapping`    |A string value that indicates how to map data from the source file to the actual columns in the table. Define the `format` value with the relevant mapping type. See [data mappings](../kusto/management/mappings.md).|`with (format="json", ingestionMapping = "[{\"column\":\"rownumber\", \"Properties\":{\"Path\":\"$.RowNumber\"}}, {\"column\":\"rowguid\", \"Properties\":{\"Path\":\"$.RowGuid\"}}]")`<br>(deprecated: `avroMapping`, `csvMapping`, `jsonMapping`) |
|`ingestionMappingReference`|A string value that indicates how to map data from the source file to the actual columns in the table using a named mapping policy object. Define the `format` value with the relevant mapping type. See [data mappings](../kusto/management/mappings.md).|`with (format="csv", ingestionMappingReference = "Mapping1")`<br>(deprecated: `avroMappingReference`, `csvMappingReference`, `jsonMappingReference`)|
|`creationTime` |The datetime value (formatted as an ISO8601 string) to use at the creation time of the ingested data extents. If unspecified, the current value (`now()`) will be used. Overriding the default is useful when ingesting older data, so that the retention policy will be applied correctly. When specified, make sure the `Lookback` property in the target table's effective [Extents merge policy](../kusto/management/merge-policy.md) is aligned with the specified value.|`with (creationTime="2017-02-13")`|
|`extend_schema`|A Boolean value that, if specified, instructs the command to extend the schema of the table (defaults to `false`). This option applies only to `.append` and `.set-or-append` commands. The only allowed schema extensions have additional columns added to the table at the end.|If the original table schema is `(a:string, b:int)`, a valid schema extension would be `(a:string, b:int, c:datetime, d:string)`, but `(a:string, c:datetime)` wouldn't be valid|
|`folder` |For [ingest-from-query](../kusto/management/data-ingestion/ingest-from-query.md) commands, the folder to assign to the table. If the table already exists, this property will override the table's folder.|`with (folder="Tables/Temporary")`|
|`format` |The data format (see [supported data formats](../ingestion-supported-formats.md)).|`with (format="csv")`|
|`ingestIfNotExists`|A string value that, if specified, prevents ingestion from succeeding if the table already has data tagged with an `ingest-by:` tag with the same value. This ensures idempotent data ingestion. For more information, see [ingest-by: tags](../kusto/management/extent-tags.md).|The properties `with (ingestIfNotExists='["Part0001"]', tags='["ingest-by:Part0001"]')` indicate that if data with the tag `ingest-by:Part0001` already exists, then don't complete the current ingestion. If it doesn't already exist, this new ingestion should have this tag set (in case a future ingestion attempts to ingest the same data again.)|
|`ignoreFirstRecord` |A Boolean value that, if set to `true`, indicates that ingestion should ignore the first record of every file. This property is useful for files in `CSV`and similar formats, if the first record in the file are the column names. By default, `false` is assumed.|`with (ignoreFirstRecord=false)`|
|`policy_ingestiontime`|A Boolean value that, if specified, describes whether to enable the [Ingestion Time Policy](../kusto/management/ingestion-time-policy.md) on a table that is created by this command. The default is `true`.|`with (policy_ingestiontime=false)`|
|`recreate_schema` |A Boolean value that, if specified, describes whether the command may recreate the schema of the table. This property applies only to the `.set-or-replace` command. This property takes precedence over the `extend_schema` property if both are set.|`with (recreate_schema=true)`|
|`tags`|A list of [tags](../kusto/management/extent-tags.md) to associate with the ingested data, formatted as a JSON string |`with (tags="['Tag1', 'Tag2']")`|
|`validationPolicy`|A JSON string that indicates which validations to run during ingestion of data represented using CSV format. See [Data ingestion](../ingest-data-overview.md) for an explanation of the different options.| `with (validationPolicy='{"ValidationOptions":1, "ValidationImplications":1}')` (this is actually the default policy)|
|`zipPattern`|Use this property when ingesting data from storage that has a ZIP archive. This is a string value indicating the regular expression to use when selecting which files in the ZIP archive to ingest.  All other files in the archive will be ignored.|`with (zipPattern="*.csv")`|

Commit message:

Add warning about aggregation fragmentation

data-explorer/includes/ingestion-properties.md, after:

---
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 07/17/2022
---

## Ingestion properties

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ingestion properties are used to [batch data together in queued ingestion](../ingest-data-overview.md#continuous-data-ingestion).  Using a lot of different ingestion properties for different data ingestion in the same table can therefore lead to poor performance due to ingestion fragmentation.

The following table lists the properties supported by Azure Data Explorer, describes them, and provides examples:

|Property              |Description                                              |Example                                             |
|----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
|`ingestionMapping`    |A string value that indicates how to map data from the source file to the actual columns in the table. Define the `format` value with the relevant mapping type. See [data mappings](../kusto/management/mappings.md).|`with (format="json", ingestionMapping = "[{\"column\":\"rownumber\", \"Properties\":{\"Path\":\"$.RowNumber\"}}, {\"column\":\"rowguid\", \"Properties\":{\"Path\":\"$.RowGuid\"}}]")`<br>(deprecated: `avroMapping`, `csvMapping`, `jsonMapping`) |
|`ingestionMappingReference`|A string value that indicates how to map data from the source file to the actual columns in the table using a named mapping policy object. Define the `format` value with the relevant mapping type. See [data mappings](../kusto/management/mappings.md).|`with (format="csv", ingestionMappingReference = "Mapping1")`<br>(deprecated: `avroMappingReference`, `csvMappingReference`, `jsonMappingReference`)|
|`creationTime` |The datetime value (formatted as an ISO8601 string) to use at the creation time of the ingested data extents. If unspecified, the current value (`now()`) will be used. Overriding the default is useful when ingesting older data, so that the retention policy will be applied correctly. When specified, make sure the `Lookback` property in the target table's effective [Extents merge policy](../kusto/management/merge-policy.md) is aligned with the specified value.|`with (creationTime="2017-02-13")`|
|`extend_schema`|A Boolean value that, if specified, instructs the command to extend the schema of the table (defaults to `false`). This option applies only to `.append` and `.set-or-append` commands. The only allowed schema extensions have additional columns added to the table at the end.|If the original table schema is `(a:string, b:int)`, a valid schema extension would be `(a:string, b:int, c:datetime, d:string)`, but `(a:string, c:datetime)` wouldn't be valid|
|`folder` |For [ingest-from-query](../kusto/management/data-ingestion/ingest-from-query.md) commands, the folder to assign to the table. If the table already exists, this property will override the table's folder.|`with (folder="Tables/Temporary")`|
|`format` |The data format (see [supported data formats](../ingestion-supported-formats.md)).|`with (format="csv")`|
|`ingestIfNotExists`|A string value that, if specified, prevents ingestion from succeeding if the table already has data tagged with an `ingest-by:` tag with the same value. This ensures idempotent data ingestion. For more information, see [ingest-by: tags](../kusto/management/extent-tags.md).|The properties `with (ingestIfNotExists='["Part0001"]', tags='["ingest-by:Part0001"]')` indicate that if data with the tag `ingest-by:Part0001` already exists, then don't complete the current ingestion. If it doesn't already exist, this new ingestion should have this tag set (in case a future ingestion attempts to ingest the same data again.)|
|`ignoreFirstRecord` |A Boolean value that, if set to `true`, indicates that ingestion should ignore the first record of every file. This property is useful for files in `CSV`and similar formats, if the first record in the file are the column names. By default, `false` is assumed.|`with (ignoreFirstRecord=false)`|
|`policy_ingestiontime`|A Boolean value that, if specified, describes whether to enable the [Ingestion Time Policy](../kusto/management/ingestion-time-policy.md) on a table that is created by this command. The default is `true`.|`with (policy_ingestiontime=false)`|
|`recreate_schema` |A Boolean value that, if specified, describes whether the command may recreate the schema of the table. This property applies only to the `.set-or-replace` command. This property takes precedence over the `extend_schema` property if both are set.|`with (recreate_schema=true)`|
|`tags`|A list of [tags](../kusto/management/extent-tags.md) to associate with the ingested data, formatted as a JSON string |`with (tags="['Tag1', 'Tag2']")`|
|`validationPolicy`|A JSON string that indicates which validations to run during ingestion of data represented using CSV format. See [Data ingestion](../ingest-data-overview.md) for an explanation of the different options.| `with (validationPolicy='{"ValidationOptions":1, "ValidationImplications":1}')` (this is actually the default policy)|
|`zipPattern`|Use this property when ingesting data from storage that has a ZIP archive. This is a string value indicating the regular expression to use when selecting which files in the ZIP archive to ingest.  All other files in the archive will be ignored.|`with (zipPattern="*.csv")`|
