---
title: Customize Azure Data Explorer dashboard visuals
description: Easily customize your Azure Data Explorer dashboard visuals
ms.reviewer: gabil
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/28/2023
---

# Customize Azure Data Explorer dashboard visuals

Visuals are essential part of any Azure Data Explorer Dashboard. For a full list of available visuals, see [Visualization](kusto/query/renderoperator.md#visualization).
In this article, you'll learn how to customize different visuals. For general information, see [Visualize data with Azure Data Explorer dashboards](azure-data-explorer-dashboards.md).

> [!NOTE]
> You must have dashboard editing permissions to customize dashboards.

## Prerequisites

* [Visualize data with Azure Data Explorer dashboards](azure-data-explorer-dashboards.md)

## Customize visuals

To make any changes in your dashboard, you'll first need to switch from viewing to editing mode.

1. On the top menu, select **Viewing** and toggle to **Editing** mode.

    :::image type="content" source="media/dashboard-customize-visuals/enter-editing-mode.png" alt-text="Screenshot of entering editing mode in dashboards in Azure Data Explorer web UI.":::

1. Browse to the tile you wish to change. Select the **Edit** icon.

    :::image type="content" source="media/dashboard-customize-visuals/edit-tile.png" alt-text="Screenshot of how to edit a tile in dashboards in Azure Data Explorer web UI.":::

1. Once you've finished making changes in the visual pane, select **Apply changes** to return to the dashboard and view your changes.

    :::image type="content" source="media/dashboard-customize-visuals/save-changes-dashboard.png" alt-text="Screenshot of how to save the changes to your dashboard tile in Azure Data Explorer web UI.":::

[!INCLUDE [customize-visuals](includes/customize-visuals.md)]

### Dashboard-specific visuals

#### Plotly (preview)

To render a Plotly visual, the query must generate a table with a single string cell containing [Plotly JSON](https://plotly.com/chart-studio-help/json-chart-schema/). This Plotly JSON string can be generated by one of the following methods:

* Dynamically create the string in Python using the [Plotly package](https://plotly.com/python/getting-started/). This process uses the [python() plugin](kusto/query/pythonplugin.md).
* Retrieve the string from a table that stores pre-cooked Plotly JSON templates. Update the required data fields using KQL string manipulation functions.

The following KQL query uses inline Python to create the 3D scatter chart:

~~~kusto
OccupancyDetection
| project Temperature, Humidity, CO2, Occupancy
| where rand() < 0.1
| evaluate python(typeof(plotly:string),
```if 1:
    import plotly.express as px
    fig = px.scatter_3d(df, x='Temperature', y='Humidity', z='CO2', color='Occupancy')
    fig.update_layout(title=dict(text="Occupancy detection, plotly 5.11.0"))
    plotly_obj = fig.to_json()
    result = pd.DataFrame(data = [plotly_obj], columns = ["plotly"])
```)
~~~

:::image type="content" source="media/dashboard-customize-visuals/plotly-scatter3d.png" alt-text="Screenshot of plotly visual type.":::

> [!NOTE]
> For best performance, make sure that the python plugin image contains the latest versions of both the Python engine (currently 3.10.8) and Plotly package (currently 5.11.0). These versions can be checked with the [get_packages_version_fl()](kusto/functions-library/get-packages-version-fl.md) function. To upgrade the Python image see [Change the Python language extensions image on your cluster](language-extensions.md#change-the-python-language-extensions-image-on-your-cluster).
Plotly visuals are useful for advanced charting including geographic, scientific, machine learning, 3d, animation and many other chart types. For more information, see [Plotly](https://plotly.com/python/).

### Funnel chart

A funnel chart visualizes a linear process that has sequential, connected stages. Each funnel stage represents a percentage of the total. So, in most cases, a funnel chart is shaped like a funnel, with the first stage being the largest, and each subsequent stage smaller than its predecessor.

The following example uses data from the `ContosoSales` database from the publicly available [help cluster](https://dataexplorer.azure.com/clusters/help) to show the number of sales for washers and dryers in Canada out of the total sum of sales in 2007.

```kusto

let interestingSales = SalesTable
| where DateKey between (datetime(2007) .. datetime(2008))
| join kind=inner Products on ProductKey;
let totalSales = interestingSales
| summarize sum(SalesAmount)
| extend Name="Total";
//totalSales
let homeAppliancesSales = interestingSales
| where ProductCategoryName == "Home Appliances"
| summarize sum(SalesAmount)
| extend Name="Home Appliances";
//homeAppliancesSales
let washersAndDryersSales = interestingSales
| where ProductCategoryName == "Home Appliances"
| where ProductSubcategoryName == "Washers & Dryers"
| summarize sum(SalesAmount)
| extend Name="Washers & Dryers";
//washersAndDryersSales
let canadaSales = interestingSales
| where ProductCategoryName == "Home Appliances"
| where ProductSubcategoryName == "Washers & Dryers"
| where Country == "Canada"
| summarize sum(SalesAmount)
| extend Name="Canada";
//canadaSales
totalSales
| union homeAppliancesSales
| union washersAndDryersSales
| union canadaSales
| project Name, SalesAmount=sum_SalesAmount
| sort by SalesAmount desc
```

:::image type="content" source="media/dashboard-customize-visuals/funnel.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Dashboard results pane showing a funnel chart visualization of the example query.":::

### Conditional formatting

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is supported for table, stat and multi stat visuals.

Conditional formatting is used to format the visual data points by their values using colors, tags, and icons.  Conditional formatting can be applied to a specific set of cells in a predetermined column or to entire rows.
Each visual can have one or more conditional formatting rules defined. When multiple rules conflict, the last rule will override previous rules.

#### Add a conditional formatting rule

1. Enter the editing mode of the table, stat, or multi stat visual you wish to conditionally format.
1. In the **Visual formatting** pane, scroll to the bottom and toggle **Conditional formatting** to **Show**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/dashboard-customize-visuals/add-conditional-formatting.png" alt-text="Screenshot of adding conditional formatting in dashboards in Azure Data Explorer web UI.":::

1. Select **Add rule**. A new rule appears with default values.

    :::image type="content" source="media/dashboard-customize-visuals/edit-new-rule.png" alt-text="Screenshot of editing new rule in dashboards in Azure Data Explorer.":::

1. Select the **Edit** icon. The **Conditional formatting** pane opens. You can either [Color by condition](#color-by-condition) or [Color by value](#color-by-value).

#### Color by condition

1. In this example, we're going to create a rule that will color the cells of states in which the damage column is a value greater than zero. Enter the following information:

    :::image type="content" source="media/dashboard-customize-visuals/edit-conditional-formatting.png" alt-text="Screenshot of editing conditional formatting in dashboards in Azure Data Explorer web UI.":::

    Field | Description | Suggested value
    |---|---|---|
    | Rule type | Condition-based rules or absolute value-based rules. | Color by condition
    | Rule name | Enter a name for this rule. If not defined, the condition column will be used by default. | Nonzero damage
    | Color style | Color formatting cell fill or text. |Bold
    | **Conditions**
    | Column | The column to be used for the condition definition. |  Damage
    | Operator | The operator to be used to define the condition. | Greater than ">"
    | Value | The value to be compared to the condition. |
    |**Formatting**
    | Apply options | Apply the formatting to cells in a specific column or to the entire row. | Apply to cells
    | Column | The column on which the formatting is applied. By default, this column is the condition column. This option is only available when **Formatting: Apply options** is set to *Apply to cells*. | State
    | Hide text | Hides the text in the formatted column. This option is only available when **Formatting: Apply options** is set to *Apply to cells*. | Off
    | Color | The color to apply to the formatted column/rows. | Red
    | Tag | Optional tag to add to the formatted column. This option is only available when **Formatting: Apply options** is set to *Apply to cells*. | Blank
    | Icon | Optional icon to add to the formatted column. This option is only available when **Formatting: Apply options** is set to *Apply to cells*. | No icon

1. Select **Save**. The visual will now be colored conditionally. Note in this example that the *State* column is highlighted when the *Damage* column is greater than zero.

    :::image type="content" source="media/dashboard-customize-visuals/color-by-condition.png" alt-text="Screenshot of resulting graph from color by condition.":::

#### Color by value

1. In this example, we're going to create a rule that will color the cells of event count on a gradient determined by the value of this count.  Enter the following information:

    :::image type="content" source="media/dashboard-customize-visuals/color-by-value.png" alt-text="Screenshot of conditional formatting to color by value.":::

    Field | Description | Suggested value
    |---|---|---|
    | Rule type | Condition-based rules or absolute value-based rules. | Color by value
    | Rule name | Enter a name for this rule. If not defined, the condition column will be used by default. |Event count
    | Column | The column to be used for the condition definition. | event
    | Theme | Color scheme. | Cold
    | Min value | Optional minimum value for conditional coloring.
    | Max value |  Optional maximum value for conditional coloring.
    | Apply options | Apply the formatting to cells in a specific column or to the entire row. | Apply to cells |

1. Select **Save**. The visual will now be colored conditionally. Note the color changes based on the value in the **event** column.

    :::image type="content" source="media/dashboard-customize-visuals/color-by-value-results.png" alt-text="Screenshot of results for coloring by value.":::

## Next steps

* [Use parameters in Azure Data Explorer dashboards](dashboard-parameters.md)
* Explore query results with the [web UI results grid](web-results-grid.md)
* [Write Kusto Query Language queries in the web UI](web-ui-kql.md)
