data-explorer/flow.md, before:

---
title: Azure Data Explorer connector for Power Automate
description: Learn about using Azure Data Explorer connector for Power Automate to create flows of automatically scheduled or triggered tasks.
ms.reviewer: miwalia
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/04/2022
---

# Azure Data Explorer connector for Microsoft :::no-loc text="Power Automate":::

The Azure Data Explorer connector for :::no-loc text="Power Automate"::: (previously Microsoft Flow) enables you to orchestrate and schedule flows, send notifications, and alerts, as part of a scheduled or triggered task.

You can:

- Send notifications and alerts based on query results, such as when thresholds exceed certain limits.
- Send regular, such as daily or weekly, reports containing tables and charts.
- Schedule regular jobs using management commands on clusters. For example, copy data from one table to another using the `.set-or-append` command.
- Export and import data between Azure Data Explorer and other databases.

For more information, see [Azure Data Explorer :::no-loc text="Power Automate"::: connector usage examples](flow-usage.md).

## Create a new flow using the Azure Data Explorer connector

To use the connector, you must first add a trigger. You can define a trigger based on a recurring time period, or as a response to a previous flow action.

1. Sign in to [:::no-loc text="Power Automate":::](/power-automate/sign-up-sign-in).

1. [Create a new flow](https://flow.microsoft.com/manage/flows/new), or, from the :::no-loc text="Power Automate"::: home page, select the **My flows** > **+ New flow**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-new-flow.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Power Automate home page, showing My flows and New highlighted.":::

1. Select **Scheduled cloud flow**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-scheduled-from-blank.png" alt-text="Screenshot of New dialog box, showing Scheduled from blank highlighted.":::

1. In **Build a scheduled cloud flow**, enter the required information.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-build-scheduled-flow.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Build a scheduled flow page, showing Flow name options highlighted.":::

1. Select **Create** > **+ New step**.
1. In the search box, enter *Kusto* or *Azure Data Explorer*, and select **Azure Data Explorer**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-actions.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Choose an operation window, showing the search box and Azure Data Explorer highlighted.":::

1. Select an action from the list. For an explanation of each action and how to configure them, see [Flow actions](#flow-actions).

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > You must have a valid Azure Data Explorer [connection for your flow](/power-automate/add-manage-connections) to run. For information about creating a connection, see [Create an Azure Data Explorer connection in :::no-loc text="Power Automate":::](#create-an-azure-data-explorer-connection).

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-action-list.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Choose an action list, showing the list of actions highlighted.":::

## Flow actions

When you select the Azure Data Explorer connector, you can choose one of the following actions to add to your flow:

- [Run KQL query](#run-kql-query)
- [Run KQL query and render a chart](#run-kql-query-and-render-a-chart)
- [Run async management command](#run-async-management-command)
- [Run management command and render a chart](#run-management-command-and-render-a-chart)
- [Run show management command](#run-show-management-command)

This section describes the capabilities and parameters for each action and provides an example showing how to add an [email](#email-kusto-query-results) action to any flow.

### Run KQL query

> [!NOTE]
> If your query starts with a dot, it's a [management command](kusto/management/index.md). Use [Run async management command](#run-async-management-command).

Use this action to query the specified cluster. The actions that are added afterwards iterate over each line of the results of the query.

If the query takes more than 8 minutes to run, it will fail with a "RequestTimeout" exception. To prevent this issue, optimize your query or divide it into smaller parts. For more information, see [Query best practices](kusto/query/best-practices.md).

#### Example

The following flow triggers a query every minute. The query checks the number of records in the table, and then sends an email only if the number of records is greater than 0.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-query-list-results-2-inline.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connector, showing the Run KQL query action." lightbox="media/flow/flow-run-query-list-results-2.png":::

### Run KQL query and render a chart

> [!NOTE]
> If your query starts with a dot, it's a [management command](kusto/management/index.md). Use [Run management command and render a chart](#run-kql-query-and-render-a-chart).

Use this action to visualize a KQL query result as a table or chart. For example, use this flow to receive daily reports by email.

If the query takes more than 8 minutes to run, it will fail with a "RequestTimeout" exception. To prevent this issue, optimize your query or divide it into smaller parts. For more information, see [Query best practices](kusto/query/best-practices.md).

#### Example

The following flow will present the query results as a timechart.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-query.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connector, showing the Run KQL query and render a chart action.":::

### Run async management command

Use this action to run a [management command](kusto/management/index.md) asynchronously, which means it will continue to run in the background. The action returns an ID, state, and status. To check the status and details of an async command, use the [.show operations](kusto/management/operations.md) command with the ID returned by this action.

If the async management command takes more than 60 minutes to run, it will fail with a "RequestTimeout" exception.

#### Example

The following flow triggers an async command to copy 10 records from the 'TransformedSysLogs' table to the 'TargetTable'. Note that the 'async' keyword is required in the query.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-async-control-command.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connector, showing the Run async management command action.":::

### Run management command and render a chart

Use this action to run a [management command](kusto/management/index.md) and display the result as a chart. The chart options include an HTML table, pie chart, time chart, and bar chart.

If the management command takes more than 8 minutes to run, it will fail with a "RequestTimeout" exception.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-control-command.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Run management command and render a chart in recurrence pane.":::

### Run show management command

This action runs the show management command and returns the result that can be used in the following connectors.

If the management command takes more than 8 minutes to run, it will fail with a "RequestTimeout" exception.

#### Example

The following flow runs the [.show operation](kusto/management/operations.md) command to find the status of an async command using an operation ID returned by an async command execution.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-show-control-command.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connector, showing the Run show management command action.":::

### Email Kusto query results

You can include a step in any flow to send reports by email, to any email address.

1. Select **+ New Step** to add a new step to your flow.
1. In the search box, enter *Office 365* and select **Office 365 Outlook**.
1. Select **Send an email (V2)**.
1. Enter the email address to which you want the email report sent.
1. Enter the subject of the email.
1. Select **Code view**.
1. Place your cursor in the **Body** field, and select **Add dynamic content**.
1. Select **BodyHtml**.
    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-send-email.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Send an email dialog box, with Body field and BodyHtml highlighted.":::
1. Select **Show advanced options**.
1. Under **Attachments Name -1**, select **Attachment Name**.
1. Under **Attachments Content**, select **Attachment Content**.
1. If necessary, add more attachments.
1. If necessary, set the importance level.
1. Select **Save**.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-add-attachments.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Send an email dialog box, with Attachments Name, Attachments Content, and Save highlighted.":::

## Create an Azure Data Explorer connection

To run a flow that contains an Azure Data Explorer connector, you must use a valid Azure Data Explorer [connection](/power-automate/add-manage-connections). You can create and authenticate a new connection from the :::no-loc text="Power Automate"::: left pane, select **Data** > [Connections](/power-automate/add-manage-connections) or from within the flow, by selecting the Azure Data Explorer connector's menu > **Add new connection**.

The following steps show how to create a connection from within a flow.

1. In **Run KQL query**, select the three dots at the top right of the power automate connector.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-add-connection.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connection, showing the authentication option.":::

1. Select **Add new connection**. When you connect for the first time, you're prompted to sign in to [authenticate the connection](#authentication).

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-sign-in.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connection, showing the sign-in option.":::

## Authentication

You can authenticate with user credentials or with an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) application. To authenticate with credentials, select **Sign in**, and enter your credentials.

To authenticate with a Service Principal:

1. Select **Connect with Service Principal**.
1. Fill out the form with the following information:

    - **Connection Name**: A descriptive and meaningful name for the new connection. In this example, we've used "MyApplication".
    - **Client ID**: Your application ID.
    - **Client Secret**: Your application key.
    - **Tenant**: The ID of the Azure AD directory in which you created the application.

    > [!Note]
    > Make sure your application is an [Azure AD application](./provision-azure-ad-app.md) and is authorized to run queries on your cluster.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-app-auth.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connection, showing the application authentication dialog box.":::

    When authentication is complete, verify that your flow uses the new connection.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-app-auth-complete.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the completed application authentication.":::

    Once the connection is set, the flow runs using the application credentials.

## Test the flow

To check if your flow works, check the flow's run history:

1. Go to the [:::no-loc text="Power Automate"::: home page](https://flow.microsoft.com/).
1. From the main menu, select [My flows](https://flow.microsoft.com/manage/flows).

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-my-flows.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Power Automate main menu, showing My flows highlighted.":::

1. On the row of the flow you want to investigate, select the more commands icon, and then select **Run history**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow//flow-run-history.png" alt-text="Screenshot of My flows tab, showing Run history highlighted.":::

    All flow runs are listed, with information about start time, duration, and status.
    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-history-results.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Run history results page.":::

    For full details about the flow, on **[My flows](https://flow.microsoft.com/manage/flows)**, select the flow you want to investigate.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-full-details.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Run history full results page.":::

To see why a run failed, select the run start time. The flow appears, and the step of the flow that failed is indicated by a red exclamation point. Expand the failed step to view its details. The **Details** pane on the right contains information about the failure so that you can troubleshoot it.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-error.png" alt-text="Screenshot of flow run, showing an error message.":::

## Limitations

- The maximum number of records per request is 50,000 and the maximum data size per request is 32 MB. These limits can't be changed.
- Synchronous requests have a timeout of 8 minutes.
- Asynchronous requests have a timeout of 60 minutes.
- The connector doesn't support operators that aren't supported by the [`getschema` operator](kusto/query/getschemaoperator.md). For example, the [fork](kusto/query/forkoperator.md), [facet](kusto/query/facetoperator.md), and [evaluate](kusto/query/evaluateoperator.md) operators aren't supported.
- Flows work best on Microsoft Edge and Google Chrome.

## Next steps

Learn about the [Azure Kusto Logic App connector](kusto/tools/logicapps.md), which is another way to run Kusto queries and commands automatically, as part of a scheduled or triggered task.

Commit message:

add note to control public access doc

data-explorer/flow.md, after:

---
title: Azure Data Explorer connector for Power Automate
description: Learn about using Azure Data Explorer connector for Power Automate to create flows of automatically scheduled or triggered tasks.
ms.reviewer: miwalia
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/04/2022
---

# Azure Data Explorer connector for Microsoft :::no-loc text="Power Automate":::

The Azure Data Explorer connector for :::no-loc text="Power Automate"::: (previously Microsoft Flow) enables you to orchestrate and schedule flows, send notifications, and alerts, as part of a scheduled or triggered task.

You can:

- Send notifications and alerts based on query results, such as when thresholds exceed certain limits.
- Send regular, such as daily or weekly, reports containing tables and charts.
- Schedule regular jobs using management commands on clusters. For example, copy data from one table to another using the `.set-or-append` command.
- Export and import data between Azure Data Explorer and other databases.

For more information, see [Azure Data Explorer :::no-loc text="Power Automate"::: connector usage examples](flow-usage.md).

> [!NOTE]
> In order for a :::no-loc text="Power Automate"::: connector to access a [network protected cluster](../../security-network-private-endpoint.md), you must add the [outbound IP addresses](/connectors/common/outbound-ip-addresses#power-platform) associated with the region of your connector to the firewall allowlist. For more information, see [Control public access to your Azure Data Explorer cluster](../../security-network-restrict-public-access.md).

## Create a new flow using the Azure Data Explorer connector

To use the connector, you must first add a trigger. You can define a trigger based on a recurring time period, or as a response to a previous flow action.

1. Sign in to [:::no-loc text="Power Automate":::](/power-automate/sign-up-sign-in).

1. [Create a new flow](https://flow.microsoft.com/manage/flows/new), or, from the :::no-loc text="Power Automate"::: home page, select the **My flows** > **+ New flow**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-new-flow.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Power Automate home page, showing My flows and New highlighted.":::

1. Select **Scheduled cloud flow**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-scheduled-from-blank.png" alt-text="Screenshot of New dialog box, showing Scheduled from blank highlighted.":::

1. In **Build a scheduled cloud flow**, enter the required information.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-build-scheduled-flow.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Build a scheduled flow page, showing Flow name options highlighted.":::

1. Select **Create** > **+ New step**.
1. In the search box, enter *Kusto* or *Azure Data Explorer*, and select **Azure Data Explorer**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-actions.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Choose an operation window, showing the search box and Azure Data Explorer highlighted.":::

1. Select an action from the list. For an explanation of each action and how to configure them, see [Flow actions](#flow-actions).

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > You must have a valid Azure Data Explorer [connection for your flow](/power-automate/add-manage-connections) to run. For information about creating a connection, see [Create an Azure Data Explorer connection in :::no-loc text="Power Automate":::](#create-an-azure-data-explorer-connection).

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-action-list.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Choose an action list, showing the list of actions highlighted.":::

## Flow actions

When you select the Azure Data Explorer connector, you can choose one of the following actions to add to your flow:

- [Run KQL query](#run-kql-query)
- [Run KQL query and render a chart](#run-kql-query-and-render-a-chart)
- [Run async management command](#run-async-management-command)
- [Run management command and render a chart](#run-management-command-and-render-a-chart)
- [Run show management command](#run-show-management-command)

This section describes the capabilities and parameters for each action and provides an example showing how to add an [email](#email-kusto-query-results) action to any flow.

### Run KQL query

> [!NOTE]
> If your query starts with a dot, it's a [management command](kusto/management/index.md). Use [Run async management command](#run-async-management-command).

Use this action to query the specified cluster. The actions that are added afterwards iterate over each line of the results of the query.

If the query takes more than 8 minutes to run, it will fail with a "RequestTimeout" exception. To prevent this issue, optimize your query or divide it into smaller parts. For more information, see [Query best practices](kusto/query/best-practices.md).

#### Example

The following flow triggers a query every minute. The query checks the number of records in the table, and then sends an email only if the number of records is greater than 0.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-query-list-results-2-inline.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connector, showing the Run KQL query action." lightbox="media/flow/flow-run-query-list-results-2.png":::

### Run KQL query and render a chart

> [!NOTE]
> If your query starts with a dot, it's a [management command](kusto/management/index.md). Use [Run management command and render a chart](#run-kql-query-and-render-a-chart).

Use this action to visualize a KQL query result as a table or chart. For example, use this flow to receive daily reports by email.

If the query takes more than 8 minutes to run, it will fail with a "RequestTimeout" exception. To prevent this issue, optimize your query or divide it into smaller parts. For more information, see [Query best practices](kusto/query/best-practices.md).

#### Example

The following flow will present the query results as a timechart.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-query.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connector, showing the Run KQL query and render a chart action.":::

### Run async management command

Use this action to run a [management command](kusto/management/index.md) asynchronously, which means it will continue to run in the background. The action returns an ID, state, and status. To check the status and details of an async command, use the [.show operations](kusto/management/operations.md) command with the ID returned by this action.

If the async management command takes more than 60 minutes to run, it will fail with a "RequestTimeout" exception.

#### Example

The following flow triggers an async command to copy 10 records from the 'TransformedSysLogs' table to the 'TargetTable'. Note that the 'async' keyword is required in the query.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-async-control-command.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connector, showing the Run async management command action.":::

### Run management command and render a chart

Use this action to run a [management command](kusto/management/index.md) and display the result as a chart. The chart options include an HTML table, pie chart, time chart, and bar chart.

If the management command takes more than 8 minutes to run, it will fail with a "RequestTimeout" exception.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-control-command.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Run management command and render a chart in recurrence pane.":::

### Run show management command

This action runs the show management command and returns the result that can be used in the following connectors.

If the management command takes more than 8 minutes to run, it will fail with a "RequestTimeout" exception.

#### Example

The following flow runs the [.show operation](kusto/management/operations.md) command to find the status of an async command using an operation ID returned by an async command execution.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-show-control-command.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connector, showing the Run show management command action.":::

### Email Kusto query results

You can include a step in any flow to send reports by email, to any email address.

1. Select **+ New Step** to add a new step to your flow.
1. In the search box, enter *Office 365* and select **Office 365 Outlook**.
1. Select **Send an email (V2)**.
1. Enter the email address to which you want the email report sent.
1. Enter the subject of the email.
1. Select **Code view**.
1. Place your cursor in the **Body** field, and select **Add dynamic content**.
1. Select **BodyHtml**.
    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-send-email.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Send an email dialog box, with Body field and BodyHtml highlighted.":::
1. Select **Show advanced options**.
1. Under **Attachments Name -1**, select **Attachment Name**.
1. Under **Attachments Content**, select **Attachment Content**.
1. If necessary, add more attachments.
1. If necessary, set the importance level.
1. Select **Save**.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-add-attachments.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Send an email dialog box, with Attachments Name, Attachments Content, and Save highlighted.":::

## Create an Azure Data Explorer connection

To run a flow that contains an Azure Data Explorer connector, you must use a valid Azure Data Explorer [connection](/power-automate/add-manage-connections). You can create and authenticate a new connection from the :::no-loc text="Power Automate"::: left pane, select **Data** > [Connections](/power-automate/add-manage-connections) or from within the flow, by selecting the Azure Data Explorer connector's menu > **Add new connection**.

The following steps show how to create a connection from within a flow.

1. In **Run KQL query**, select the three dots at the top right of the power automate connector.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-add-connection.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connection, showing the authentication option.":::

1. Select **Add new connection**. When you connect for the first time, you're prompted to sign in to [authenticate the connection](#authentication).

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-sign-in.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connection, showing the sign-in option.":::

## Authentication

You can authenticate with user credentials or with an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) application. To authenticate with credentials, select **Sign in**, and enter your credentials.

To authenticate with a Service Principal:

1. Select **Connect with Service Principal**.
1. Fill out the form with the following information:

    - **Connection Name**: A descriptive and meaningful name for the new connection. In this example, we've used "MyApplication".
    - **Client ID**: Your application ID.
    - **Client Secret**: Your application key.
    - **Tenant**: The ID of the Azure AD directory in which you created the application.

    > [!Note]
    > Make sure your application is an [Azure AD application](./provision-azure-ad-app.md) and is authorized to run queries on your cluster.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-app-auth.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer connection, showing the application authentication dialog box.":::

    When authentication is complete, verify that your flow uses the new connection.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-app-auth-complete.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the completed application authentication.":::

    Once the connection is set, the flow runs using the application credentials.

## Test the flow

To check if your flow works, check the flow's run history:

1. Go to the [:::no-loc text="Power Automate"::: home page](https://flow.microsoft.com/).
1. From the main menu, select [My flows](https://flow.microsoft.com/manage/flows).

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-my-flows.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Power Automate main menu, showing My flows highlighted.":::

1. On the row of the flow you want to investigate, select the more commands icon, and then select **Run history**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow//flow-run-history.png" alt-text="Screenshot of My flows tab, showing Run history highlighted.":::

    All flow runs are listed, with information about start time, duration, and status.
    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-run-history-results.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Run history results page.":::

    For full details about the flow, on **[My flows](https://flow.microsoft.com/manage/flows)**, select the flow you want to investigate.

    :::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-full-details.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Run history full results page.":::

To see why a run failed, select the run start time. The flow appears, and the step of the flow that failed is indicated by a red exclamation point. Expand the failed step to view its details. The **Details** pane on the right contains information about the failure so that you can troubleshoot it.

:::image type="content" source="media/flow/flow-error.png" alt-text="Screenshot of flow run, showing an error message.":::

## Limitations

- The maximum number of records per request is 50,000 and the maximum data size per request is 32 MB. These limits can't be changed.
- Synchronous requests have a timeout of 8 minutes.
- Asynchronous requests have a timeout of 60 minutes.
- The connector doesn't support operators that aren't supported by the [`getschema` operator](kusto/query/getschemaoperator.md). For example, the [fork](kusto/query/forkoperator.md), [facet](kusto/query/facetoperator.md), and [evaluate](kusto/query/evaluateoperator.md) operators aren't supported.
- Flows work best on Microsoft Edge and Google Chrome.

## Next steps

Learn about the [Azure Kusto Logic App connector](kusto/tools/logicapps.md), which is another way to run Kusto queries and commands automatically, as part of a scheduled or triggered task.
