---
title: Use one-click ingestion to ingest data into Azure Data Explorer
description: Overview of ingesting (loading) data into Azure Data Explorer simply, using one-click ingestion.
author: orspod
ms.author: orspodek
ms.reviewer: tzgitlin
ms.service: data-explorer
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 03/29/2020
---

# What is one-click ingestion?

Ingesting data can be a complicated process, but one-click ingestion makes the process easy, fast, and intuitive. One-click ingestion uses intuitive UX to help you ramp-up quickly and start ingesting data and creating database tables and mapping structures.  Select data from a variety of sources in different data formats, either as a one-time or continuous ingestion process.

The following features make one-click ingestion so useful:

* Intuitive experience guided by the ingestion wizard
* Ingest data in a matter of minutes
* Ingest data from a variety of sources: local file, blobs, and containers (up to 10,000 blobs)
* Ingest data in a variety of [formats](#file-formats)
* Ingest data into new or existing tables
* Table mapping is suggested to you and easy to change
* Table schema is automatically suggested and easy to change
* Continue ingestion easily and quickly from a container with Event Grid

One-click ingestion is particularly useful when ingesting data for the first time, or when your data's schema is unfamiliar to you.

## Prerequisites

* If you don't have an Azure subscription, create a [free Azure account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/) before you begin.
* Create [an Azure Data Explorer cluster and database](create-cluster-database-portal.md).
* Sign in to the [Azure Data Explorer Web UI](https://dataexplorer.azure.com/) and [add a connection to your cluster](web-query-data.md#add-clusters).

## File formats

One-click ingestion supports ingesting a new table from source data in any of the following formats:
* JSON
* CSV
* TSV
* SCSV
* SOHSV
* TSVE
* PSV

## One-click ingestion wizard

The one-click ingestion wizard guides you through the one-click ingestion process. 

> [!NOTE]
> This section describes the wizard in general. The options you select depend on what data format you are ingesting, what kind of data source you are ingesting from, and whether you are ingesting into a new or existing table. 
>
> For sample scenarios, see:
> * Ingest into [a new table from a container in CSV format](one-click-ingestion-new-table.md)
> * Ingest into an [existing table from a local file in JSON format](one-click-ingestion-existing-table.md) 

<!-- TODO either change the local file tutorial to blob storage or create another one to show users how to do this-->

1. To access the one-click ingestion wizard from the **Welcome to Azure Data Explorer** home screen, complete the first two steps (cluster creation and database creation) and then select **Ingest new data**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/ingest-data-one-click/welcome-ingestion.png" alt-text="Ingest new data from welcome to Azure Data Explorer":::

1. To access the wizard from the Azure Data Explorer web UI, right-click the **database** or **table** row in the left menu of the Azure Data Explorer web UI and select **Ingest new data (preview)**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/ingest-data-one-click/one-click-ingestion-in-webui.png" alt-text="Select one-click ingestion in the web UI":::

1. The wizard guides you through the following options:
    * Ingest into an [existing table](one-click-ingestion-existing-table.md)
    * Ingest into [a new table](one-click-ingestion-new-table.md)
    * Ingest data from:
      * Blob storage <!-- add link to the blob tutorial-->
      * [A local file](one-click-ingestion-existing-table.md)
      * [A container](one-click-ingestion-new-table.md)
       
1. If you're ingesting data from a container, you can filter the data so that only files with specific prefixes or file extensions are ingested. For example, you might only want to ingest files with filenames beginning with the word *Europe*, or only files with the extension *.json*. 

1. For other sources (blob or local file), when you've successfully selected the data source, a preview of the data is displayed. 

1. Click **Edit schema**. The **Map columns** dialog opens and you can map source data columns to target table columns. Review and adjust the autogenerated schema and ingestion properties. 
    * **Map columns**:  
        * Use the existing mapping or a new mapping when ingesting to an existing table.
        
1. In the **Schema** tab: Some of the options available will be different when ingesting to an existing vs new table.
    * **Compression type**: The service automatically identifies if the source is compressed or not by looking at its name. Confirm this is correct.
    * **Data format**: Choose the format of your data.
        * If your data is in JSON format, choose **JSON levels**, from 1 to 10. The levels determine the table column data division.
        * If your data is in CSV format, choose whether or not it has a header.
    * **Mapping name**:  Use a new or existing mapping name.

1. In the **Editor** window, adjust data table columns as necessary.

    * Select the **v** button next to column headers to add a **New column**, **Delete column**, **Sort ascending**, or **Sort descending**. On existing columns, only data sorting and new columns is available.
    * You can add new columns and change column properties on new and existing tables. Column properties include the data source and data type.

    > [!NOTE]
    > Above the **Editor** pane, select the **v** button to open the command editor. In the editor, you can view and copy the automatic commands generated from your inputs.

1. Start the data ingestion process.
    * When ingesting data from **non-container** sources (blob storage, local file), the ingestion will take immediate effect.
    * If your data source is a **container**:
        * Azure Data Explorer's data ingestion aggregation (batching) policy is designed to optimize the ingestion process. By default, the policy is configured to 5 minutes or 500 MB of data, so you may experience latency. See [batching policy](kusto/management/batchingpolicy.md) for aggregation options. 
        * While your data is batching, you can select **Copy link** to navigate elsewhere and later come back to the ingestion progress page. 
        * Select **export** to download the ingestion report and review the performance of each blob that was addressed.
        * Select **Create continuous ingestion** to continue to the Azure portal and set up [continuous ingestion using Event Grid](one-click-ingestion-new-table.md#continuous-ingestion---container-only).
    

1. See **Quick commands** at the top right of your screen for initial exploration of your data.
    * **Take 10**: Returns 10 random rows. View a small sample of records to get familiar with the data you ingested.
    * **Number of rows**: Returns the number of rows in your database.
    * **Drop commands**: Revokes commands which were executed during the ingestion process.

## Next steps

* Decide if you'll use one-click ingestion to ingest data into [an existing table](one-click-ingestion-existing-table.md) or [a new table](one-click-ingestion-new-table.md)
* [Query data in Azure Data Explorer Web UI](web-query-data.md)
* [Write queries for Azure Data Explorer using Kusto Query Language](write-queries.md)
