---
title: Use the sample app generator to ingest and query data in Azure Data Explorer
description: Overview of using the sample app generator to create the code to ingest and query your data in your preferred programming language.
ms.reviewer: talzamir
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 09/05/2022
---

# Use the sample app generator wizard to create code to ingest and query your data

The sample app generator wizard is a tool that allows you to create a working app to ingest and query your data in your preferred programming language. The generated code references the relevant SDK frameworks and is tailored to your cluster and data. The app is a *self-contained*, *executable* example that demonstrates how to connect to a cluster using authentication, administer, and ingest and query data using the SDK.

You can use the generated code as a baseline to write your own apps, altering the code as you go, or you can copy sections of code into your own apps. The code includes comments with tips, best practices, links to reference material, and recommended TODO changes when adapting the code to your needs.

## Prerequisites

* A Microsoft account or an Azure Active Directory user identity. An Azure subscription isn't required.
* An Azure Data Explorer cluster and database. [Create a cluster and database](create-cluster-database-quickstart.md)
* Sign in to the [Azure Data Explorer web UI](https://dataexplorer.azure.com/) and [add a connection to your cluster](web-query-data.md#add-clusters).

> [!NOTE]
> To enable access between a cluster and a storage account without public access (restricted to private endpoint/service endpoint), see [Create a Managed Private Endpoint](security-network-managed-private-endpoint-create.md).

## Access the wizard

The sample app generator wizard guides you through the ingestion process.

* To access the wizard from the [Azure Data Explorer web UI](https://dataexplorer.azure.com/), use one of the following methods:

  * Select **Data** in the left pane. Within the **Data Management** page under Quick actions, select **Generate Sample App**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/sample-app-generator-wizard/sample-app-generator-welcome.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Sample app generator card from welcome to Azure Data Explorer.":::

  * Select **Data** in the left pane. Within the **Data Management** page, select **SDKs** tab. Within SDKs sub-tab, select an SDK.

    :::image type="content" source="media/sample-app-generator-wizard/sample-app-generator-sdks.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Sample app generator from SDKs tab.":::

## Sample app generator wizard

The sample app generator wizard guides you through the ingestion process.

On the **Destination** tab, specify the destination cluster, database, and table and then select the programming language for your app.

:::image type="content" source="media/sample-app-generator-wizard/sample-app-generator-destination-tab.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Azure Data Explorer web UI showing the Sample app generator destination tab.":::

> [!NOTE]
> This section describes the wizard in general. The options you select depend on what data format you are ingesting, what kind of data source you are ingesting from, and whether you are ingesting into a new or existing table.
>
> For sample scenarios, see:
>
> * Ingest into [a new table from Azure Blob Storage in CSV format](/azure/data-explorer/ingest-from-container)
> * Ingest into an [existing table from a local file in JSON format](/azure/data-explorer/ingest-from-local-file)

The wizard guides you through the following options:

* Ingest into an [existing table](/azure/data-explorer/ingest-from-local-file)
* Ingest into [a new table](/azure/data-explorer/ingest-from-container)
* Ingest data from:
  * Blob Storage
  * [A local file](/azure/data-explorer/ingest-from-local-file)

### Schema mapping

The service automatically generates schema and ingestion properties, which you can change. You can use an existing mapping structure or create a new one, depending on if you're ingesting to a new or existing table.

In the **Schema** tab, do the following actions:

* Confirm the autogenerated compression type.
* Choose the [format of your data](#file-formats). Different formats will allow you to make further changes.
* Change mapping in the [Editor window](#editor-window).

#### File formats

The ingestion wizard supports ingesting from source data in all [data formats supported by Azure Data Explorer for ingestion](ingestion-supported-formats.md).

### Editor window

In the **Editor** window of the **Schema** tab, you can adjust data table columns as necessary.

[!INCLUDE [data-explorer-ingestion-wizard-column-table](includes/data-explorer-ingestion-wizard-column-table.md)]

>[!NOTE]
> At any time, you can open the [command editor](/azure/data-explorer/ingest-from-container#command-editor) above the **Editor** pane. In the command editor, you can view and copy the automatic commands generated from your inputs.

#### Mapping transformations

Some data format mappings (Parquet, JSON, and Avro) support simple ingest-time transformations. To apply mapping transformations, create or update a column in the [Editor window](#editor-window).

Mapping transformations can be performed on a column of **Type** string or datetime, with the **Source** having data type int or long. Supported mapping transformations are:

* DateTimeFromUnixSeconds
* DateTimeFromUnixMilliseconds
* DateTimeFromUnixMicroseconds
* DateTimeFromUnixNanoseconds

For more information, see [mapping transformations](#mapping-transformations).

### Code generation

Once you have completed schema mapping and column manipulations, the sample app generator wizard will start the code generation process.

### Initial data exploration

After code generation, the sample app project will be available for download as a ZIP file. Detailed instructions for running the project with the selected SDK will be shown both on the summary tab and inside the sample project file. In addition, the wizard gives you options to use **[Quick commands](/azure/data-explorer/ingest-from-local-file#explore-quick-queries-and-tools)** for initial exploration of your data.

>[!NOTE]
> You may need to run the downloaded app for the Quick commands to work.

## Next steps

* [Azure Data Explorer API Overview](kusto/api/index.md)