---
title: T-SQL in Kusto vs. Microsoft SQL Server - Azure Data Explorer
description: This article describes T-SQL differences between Kusto and Microsoft SQL Server in Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: orspodek
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 02/02/2023
---
# T-SQL in Kusto vs. Microsoft SQL Server

T-SQL is a language used in both Kusto and Microsoft SQL Server. However, Kusto implements a limited subset of T-SQL. This article highlights the main differences between T-SQL in Kusto and Microsoft SQL Server.

## CREATE, INSERT, DROP, ALTER statements

Kusto doesn't support `CREATE`, `INSERT`, `DROP`, and `ALTER` T-SQL statements, and doesn't support schema modifications or data modifications through MS-TDS.

## Correlated subqueries

Kusto doesn't support correlated subqueries in `SELECT`, `WHERE`, and `JOIN` clauses.

## TOP flavors

Kusto ignores `WITH TIES` and evaluates queries as regular `TOP`.
Kusto doesn't support `PERCENT`.

## Cursors

Kusto doesn't support SQL cursors.

## Flow control

Kusto doesn't support flow control statements, except for a few limited cases,
such as `IF` `THEN` `ELSE` clause that has the identical schema for the `THEN`
and `ELSE` batches.

## Data types

The data returned by Kusto may be of a different type than in SQL Server, such as types like `TINYINT` and `SMALLINT` which have no equivalent in Kusto. This means that clients expecting a `BYTE` or `INT16` value may receive an `INT32` or `INT64` value instead.

## Column order in results

When the `SELECT` statement uses an asterisk (`*`), the order of columns in each result set may differ between Kusto and SQL Server. Queries using column names would work better in these cases. If the `SELECT` statement doesn't use an asterisk, the column ordinals are preserved.

## Columns name in results

T-SQL in SQL Server allows for multiple columns with the same name, which is not allowed in Kusto. In the case of a name collision, the names of the columns may be different in Kusto, but the original name will be preserved for at least one of the columns.

## ANY, ALL, and EXISTS predicates

Kusto doesn't support the predicates `ANY`, `ALL`, and `EXISTS`.

## Recursive CTEs

Kusto doesn't support recursive common table expressions.

## Dynamic SQL

Kusto doesn't support dynamic SQL statements, which involves inline execution of SQL scripts generated by the query.

## WITHIN GROUP

Kusto doesn't support `WITHIN GROUP` clause.

## TRUNCATE function

`TRUNCATE` function (ODBC) in Kusto works similarly to `ROUND`, meaning that the result will be the nearest value, rather than the lower value as returned in SQL.
