data-explorer/kusto/api/netfx/request-properties.md, before:

---
title:  Request properties and ClientRequestProperties
description: This article describes Request properties and ClientRequestProperties in Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: orspodek
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 09/12/2023
---
# Client request properties

In the Kusto Data library, the `ClientRequestProperties` class helps manage interaction between your client application and the service. This class contains the following information:

* [Client request properties](#client-request-properties): A mapping of specific options for customizing request behavior.
* [Query parameters](#query-parameters): A mapping of user-declared parameters that allow for secure query customization.
* [Named properties](#named-properties): Client request ID, application details, and user data, primarily used for debugging and tracing.

## Client request properties

<!-- The following text can be re-produced by running: Kusto.Cli.exe -focus -execute:"#crp -doc" -->

The following table overviews the supported client request property options.

To configure client request properties, use the "set option" method in the `ClientRequestProperties` class, following language-specific naming conventions, or use a [set statement](../../query/setstatement.md). For more information, see [Customize query behavior with client request properties](../get-started/app-basic-query.md#customize-query-behavior-with-client-request-properties).

> [!NOTE]
> For HTTP requests directly to the REST API, define client request properties in the `properties` field within the POST request body. For more information, see [Query/management HTTP request](../rest/request.md).

| Property name | Type | Description |
|--|--|--|
| `client_max_redirect_count` | long | Controls the maximum number of HTTP redirects the client follows during processing. |
| `deferpartialqueryfailures` | bool | If set to `true`, suppresses reporting of partial query failures within the result set. |
| `materialized_view_shuffle_query` | dynamic | Provides a hint to use the shuffle strategy for referenced materialized views in the query. This property takes an array of materialized view names and their corresponding shuffle keys.</br></br>For example, `dynamic([{ "Name": "V1", "Keys" : [ "K1", "K2" ] }])` indicates shuffling view `V1` by keys `K1` and `K2`, while `dynamic([ { "Name": "V1" } ])` shuffles view `V1` by all keys. |
| `max_memory_consumption_per_query_per_node` | UInt64 | Overrides the default maximum amount of memory a query may allocate per node. |
| `maxmemoryconsumptionperiterator` | UInt64 | Overrides the default maximum amount of memory a query operator may allocate. |
| `maxoutputcolumns` | long | Overrides the default maximum number of columns a query is allowed to produce. |
| `norequesttimeout` | bool | Sets the request timeout to its maximum value. This option cannot be modified as part of a [set statement](../../query/setstatement.md). |
| `notruncation` | bool | Disables truncation of query results returned to the caller. |
| `push_selection_through_aggregation` | bool | If set to `true`, allows pushing simple selection through aggregation. |
| `query_bin_auto_at` | literal | Specifies the start value to use when evaluating the [bin_auto()](../../query/bin-autofunction.md) function. |
| `query_bin_auto_size` | literal | Specifies the bin size value to use when evaluating the [bin_auto()](../../query/bin-autofunction.md) function. |
| `query_cursor_after_default` | string | Sets the default parameter value for the [cursor_after()](../../query/cursorafterfunction.md) function when called without parameters. |
| `query_cursor_before_or_at_default` | string | Sets the default parameter value for the [cursor_before_or_at()](../../query/cursorbeforeoratfunction.md) function when called without parameters. |
| `query_cursor_current` | string | Overrides the cursor value returned by the [cursor_current()](../../query/cursorcurrent.md) function. |
| `query_cursor_disabled` | bool | Disables the usage of [cursor functions](../../management/databasecursor.md#cursor-functions) within the query context. |
| `query_cursor_scoped_tables` | dynamic | Lists table names to be scoped to `cursor_after_default` .. `cursor_before_or_at()` (upper bound is optional). |
| `query_datascope` | string | Controls the data to which the query applies. Supported values are `default`, `all`, or `hotcache`. |
| `query_datetimescope_column` | string | Specifies the column name for the query's datetime scope (`query_datetimescope_to` / `query_datetimescope_from`). |
| `query_datetimescope_from` | datetime | Sets the minimum date and time limit for the query scope. If defined, it serves as an auto-applied filter on `query_datetimescope_column`. |
| `query_datetimescope_to` | datetime | Sets the maximum date and time limit for the query scope. If defined, it serves as an auto-applied filter on `query_datetimescope_column`. |
| `query_distribution_nodes_span` | int | Controls the behavior of subquery merge. The executing node introduces an extra level in the query hierarchy for each subgroup of nodes, and this option sets the subgroup size.|
| `query_fanout_nodes_percent` | int | Specifies the percentage of nodes for executing fan out. |
| `query_fanout_threads_percent` | int | Specifies the percentage of threads for executing fan out. |
| `query_force_row_level_security` | bool | If set to `true`, enforces [row level security](../../management/rowlevelsecuritypolicy.md) rules, even if the policy is disabled. |
| `query_language` | string | Determines how the query text should be interpreted. Supported values are `csl`, `kql`, or `sql`. |
| `query_log_query_parameters` | bool | Enables logging of the query parameters for later viewing in the `.show` `queries` journal. |
| `query_max_entities_in_union` | long | Overrides the default maximum number of columns a query is allowed to produce. |
| `query_now` | datetime | Overrides the datetime value returned by the [now()](../../query/nowfunction.md) function. |
| `query_python_debug` | bool or int |  If set to `true`, generates a Python debug query for the enumerated Python node.|
| `query_results_apply_getschema` | bool | If set, retrieves the schema of each tabular data in the results of the query instead of the data itself. |
| `query_results_cache_force_refresh` | bool |If set to `true`, forces a cache refresh of query results for a specific query. This option cannot be modified as part of a [set statement](../../query/setstatement.md). |
| `query_results_cache_max_age` | timespan | Controls the maximum age of the cached query results that the service is allowed to return. |
| `query_results_cache_per_shard` | bool | If set to `true`, enables per [extent](../../management/extents-overview.md) query caching. |
| `query_results_progressive_row_count` | long | Provides a hint for how many records to send in each update. Takes effect only if `results_progressive_enabled` is set. |
| `query_results_progressive_update_period` | timespan | Provides a hint for how often to send progress frames. Takes effect only if `results_progressive_enabled` is set. |
| `query_take_max_records` | long | Limits query results to a specified number of records. |
| `query_weakconsistency_session_id` | string | Sets the query weak consistency session ID. Takes effect when `queryconsistency` mode is set to `weakconsistency_by_session_id`. |
| `queryconsistency` | string | Controls query consistency. Supported values are `strongconsistency`, `weakconsistency`, `weakconsistency_by_query`, `weakconsistency_by_database`, or `weakconsistency_by_session_id`. When using `weakconsistency_by_session_id`, ensure to also set the `query_weakconsistency_session_id` property. |
| `request_app_name` | string | Specifies the request application name to be used in reporting. For example, `.show queries`. |
| `request_block_row_level_security` | bool | If set to `true`, blocks access to tables with [row level security](../../management/rowlevelsecuritypolicy.md) policy enabled. |
| `request_callout_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents request callout to a user-provided service. |
| `request_description` | string | Allows inclusion of arbitrary text as the request description. |
| `request_external_data_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents the request from accessing external data using the [externaldata](../../query/externaldata-operator.md) operator or external tables. |
| `request_external_table_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents the request from accessing external tables. |
| `request_impersonation_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, indicates that the service should not impersonate the caller's identity. |
| `request_readonly` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents write access for the request. |
| `request_remote_entities_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents the request from accessing remote databases and clusters. |
| `request_sandboxed_execution_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents the request from invoking code in the sandbox. |
| `request_user` | string | Specifies the request user to be used in reporting. For example, `.show queries`. |
| `results_progressive_enabled` | bool | If set to `true`, enables the progressive query stream. |
| `servertimeout` | timespan | Overrides the default request timeout. This option cannot be modified as part of a [set statement](../../query/setstatement.md). |
| `truncation_max_records` | long | Overrides the default maximum number of records a query is allowed to return to the caller (truncation). |
| `truncation_max_size` | long | Overrides the default maximum data size a query is allowed to return to the caller (truncation). |
| `validatepermissions` | bool | Validates the user's permissions to perform the query without actually running the query. Possible results for this property are: `OK` (permissions are present and valid), `Incomplete` (validation couldn't be completed due to dynamic schema evaluation), or `KustoRequestDeniedException` (permissions were not set). |

## Query parameters

The [query parameters declaration statement](../../query/queryparametersstatement.md) can be used to declare parameters for a [Kusto Query Language (KQL)](../../query/index.md) query. When using Kusto Data, the `ClientRequestProperties` class contains methods to set, clear, and check the presence of such query parameters.

The set parameter method provides a number of overloads for common data types, such as `string` and `long`. For all other types, express the value as a KQL literal in `string` format, and make sure that the `declare` `query_parameters` statement declares the correct [scalar data type](../../query/scalar-data-types/index.md).

For an example, see [Use query parameters to protect user input](../get-started/app-basic-query.md#use-query-parameters-to-protect-user-input).

## Named properties

The `ClientRequestProperties` class includes named properties that are valuable for debugging and tracing purposes. Each of these named properties corresponds to an HTTP request header. The following table provides an overview of these named properties.

### [C\#](#tab/csharp-named-props)

| Property name | HTTP header | Description |
|--|--|--|
| `ClientRequestId` | `x-ms-client-request-id` | An ID used to identify the request. This specification is helpful for debugging and may be required for specific scenarios like query cancellation. We recommend using the format *ClientApplicationName*`.`*ActivityType*`;`*UniqueId*. If the client doesn't specify a value for this property, a random value is assigned.|
| `Application` | `x-ms-app` | The name of the client application that makes the request. This value is used for tracing. To specify the property in a [Kusto connection string](../connection-strings/kusto.md), use the `Application Name for Tracing` property. If the client doesn't specify a value for this property, the property is automatically set to the name of the process hosting the Kusto Data library.|
| `User` | `x-ms-user` | The identity of the user that makes the request. This value is used for tracing. To specify the property in a [Kusto connection string](../connection-strings/kusto.md), use the `User Name for Tracing` property.|

> [!CAUTION]
> The `ClientRequestId` property is recorded for diagnostics. Avoid sending sensitive data like personally identifiable or confidential information.

---

## Related content

* [Create an app to run basic queries](../get-started/app-basic-query.md)
* [Query/management HTTP request](../rest/request.md)

Commit message:

reset named properties to h2s instead of table

data-explorer/kusto/api/netfx/request-properties.md, after:

---
title:  Request properties and ClientRequestProperties
description: This article describes Request properties and ClientRequestProperties in Azure Data Explorer.
ms.reviewer: orspodek
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 09/12/2023
---
# Client request properties

In the Kusto Data library, the `ClientRequestProperties` class helps manage interaction between your client application and the service. This class contains the following information:

* [Client request properties](#client-request-properties): A mapping of specific options for customizing request behavior.
* [Query parameters](#query-parameters): A mapping of user-declared parameters that allow for secure query customization.
* [Named properties](#named-properties): Client request ID, application details, and user data, primarily used for debugging and tracing.

## Client request properties

<!-- The following text can be re-produced by running: Kusto.Cli.exe -focus -execute:"#crp -doc" -->

The following table overviews the supported client request property options.

To configure client request properties, use the "set option" method in the `ClientRequestProperties` class, following language-specific naming conventions, or use a [set statement](../../query/setstatement.md). For more information, see [Customize query behavior with client request properties](../get-started/app-basic-query.md#customize-query-behavior-with-client-request-properties).

> [!NOTE]
> For HTTP requests directly to the REST API, define client request properties in the `properties` field within the POST request body. For more information, see [Query/management HTTP request](../rest/request.md).

| Property name | Type | Description |
|--|--|--|
| `client_max_redirect_count` | long | Controls the maximum number of HTTP redirects the client follows during processing. |
| `deferpartialqueryfailures` | bool | If set to `true`, suppresses reporting of partial query failures within the result set. |
| `materialized_view_shuffle_query` | dynamic | Provides a hint to use the shuffle strategy for referenced materialized views in the query. This property takes an array of materialized view names and their corresponding shuffle keys.</br></br>For example, `dynamic([{ "Name": "V1", "Keys" : [ "K1", "K2" ] }])` indicates shuffling view `V1` by keys `K1` and `K2`, while `dynamic([ { "Name": "V1" } ])` shuffles view `V1` by all keys. |
| `max_memory_consumption_per_query_per_node` | UInt64 | Overrides the default maximum amount of memory a query may allocate per node. |
| `maxmemoryconsumptionperiterator` | UInt64 | Overrides the default maximum amount of memory a query operator may allocate. |
| `maxoutputcolumns` | long | Overrides the default maximum number of columns a query is allowed to produce. |
| `norequesttimeout` | bool | Sets the request timeout to its maximum value. This option cannot be modified as part of a [set statement](../../query/setstatement.md). |
| `notruncation` | bool | Disables truncation of query results returned to the caller. |
| `push_selection_through_aggregation` | bool | If set to `true`, allows pushing simple selection through aggregation. |
| `query_bin_auto_at` | literal | Specifies the start value to use when evaluating the [bin_auto()](../../query/bin-autofunction.md) function. |
| `query_bin_auto_size` | literal | Specifies the bin size value to use when evaluating the [bin_auto()](../../query/bin-autofunction.md) function. |
| `query_cursor_after_default` | string | Sets the default parameter value for the [cursor_after()](../../query/cursorafterfunction.md) function when called without parameters. |
| `query_cursor_before_or_at_default` | string | Sets the default parameter value for the [cursor_before_or_at()](../../query/cursorbeforeoratfunction.md) function when called without parameters. |
| `query_cursor_current` | string | Overrides the cursor value returned by the [cursor_current()](../../query/cursorcurrent.md) function. |
| `query_cursor_disabled` | bool | Disables the usage of [cursor functions](../../management/databasecursor.md#cursor-functions) within the query context. |
| `query_cursor_scoped_tables` | dynamic | Lists table names to be scoped to `cursor_after_default` .. `cursor_before_or_at()` (upper bound is optional). |
| `query_datascope` | string | Controls the data to which the query applies. Supported values are `default`, `all`, or `hotcache`. |
| `query_datetimescope_column` | string | Specifies the column name for the query's datetime scope (`query_datetimescope_to` / `query_datetimescope_from`). |
| `query_datetimescope_from` | datetime | Sets the minimum date and time limit for the query scope. If defined, it serves as an auto-applied filter on `query_datetimescope_column`. |
| `query_datetimescope_to` | datetime | Sets the maximum date and time limit for the query scope. If defined, it serves as an auto-applied filter on `query_datetimescope_column`. |
| `query_distribution_nodes_span` | int | Controls the behavior of subquery merge. The executing node introduces an extra level in the query hierarchy for each subgroup of nodes, and this option sets the subgroup size.|
| `query_fanout_nodes_percent` | int | Specifies the percentage of nodes for executing fan out. |
| `query_fanout_threads_percent` | int | Specifies the percentage of threads for executing fan out. |
| `query_force_row_level_security` | bool | If set to `true`, enforces [row level security](../../management/rowlevelsecuritypolicy.md) rules, even if the policy is disabled. |
| `query_language` | string | Determines how the query text should be interpreted. Supported values are `csl`, `kql`, or `sql`. |
| `query_log_query_parameters` | bool | Enables logging of the query parameters for later viewing in the `.show` `queries` journal. |
| `query_max_entities_in_union` | long | Overrides the default maximum number of columns a query is allowed to produce. |
| `query_now` | datetime | Overrides the datetime value returned by the [now()](../../query/nowfunction.md) function. |
| `query_python_debug` | bool or int |  If set to `true`, generates a Python debug query for the enumerated Python node.|
| `query_results_apply_getschema` | bool | If set, retrieves the schema of each tabular data in the results of the query instead of the data itself. |
| `query_results_cache_force_refresh` | bool |If set to `true`, forces a cache refresh of query results for a specific query. This option cannot be modified as part of a [set statement](../../query/setstatement.md). |
| `query_results_cache_max_age` | timespan | Controls the maximum age of the cached query results that the service is allowed to return. |
| `query_results_cache_per_shard` | bool | If set to `true`, enables per [extent](../../management/extents-overview.md) query caching. |
| `query_results_progressive_row_count` | long | Provides a hint for how many records to send in each update. Takes effect only if `results_progressive_enabled` is set. |
| `query_results_progressive_update_period` | timespan | Provides a hint for how often to send progress frames. Takes effect only if `results_progressive_enabled` is set. |
| `query_take_max_records` | long | Limits query results to a specified number of records. |
| `query_weakconsistency_session_id` | string | Sets the query weak consistency session ID. Takes effect when `queryconsistency` mode is set to `weakconsistency_by_session_id`. |
| `queryconsistency` | string | Controls query consistency. Supported values are `strongconsistency`, `weakconsistency`, `weakconsistency_by_query`, `weakconsistency_by_database`, or `weakconsistency_by_session_id`. When using `weakconsistency_by_session_id`, ensure to also set the `query_weakconsistency_session_id` property. |
| `request_app_name` | string | Specifies the request application name to be used in reporting. For example, `.show queries`. |
| `request_block_row_level_security` | bool | If set to `true`, blocks access to tables with [row level security](../../management/rowlevelsecuritypolicy.md) policy enabled. |
| `request_callout_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents request callout to a user-provided service. |
| `request_description` | string | Allows inclusion of arbitrary text as the request description. |
| `request_external_data_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents the request from accessing external data using the [externaldata](../../query/externaldata-operator.md) operator or external tables. |
| `request_external_table_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents the request from accessing external tables. |
| `request_impersonation_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, indicates that the service should not impersonate the caller's identity. |
| `request_readonly` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents write access for the request. |
| `request_remote_entities_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents the request from accessing remote databases and clusters. |
| `request_sandboxed_execution_disabled` | bool | If set to `true`, prevents the request from invoking code in the sandbox. |
| `request_user` | string | Specifies the request user to be used in reporting. For example, `.show queries`. |
| `results_progressive_enabled` | bool | If set to `true`, enables the progressive query stream. |
| `servertimeout` | timespan | Overrides the default request timeout. This option cannot be modified as part of a [set statement](../../query/setstatement.md). |
| `truncation_max_records` | long | Overrides the default maximum number of records a query is allowed to return to the caller (truncation). |
| `truncation_max_size` | long | Overrides the default maximum data size a query is allowed to return to the caller (truncation). |
| `validatepermissions` | bool | Validates the user's permissions to perform the query without actually running the query. Possible results for this property are: `OK` (permissions are present and valid), `Incomplete` (validation couldn't be completed due to dynamic schema evaluation), or `KustoRequestDeniedException` (permissions were not set). |

## Query parameters

The [query parameters declaration statement](../../query/queryparametersstatement.md) can be used to declare parameters for a [Kusto Query Language (KQL)](../../query/index.md) query. When using Kusto Data, the `ClientRequestProperties` class contains methods to set, clear, and check the presence of such query parameters.

The set parameter method provides a number of overloads for common data types, such as `string` and `long`. For all other types, express the value as a KQL literal in `string` format, and make sure that the `declare` `query_parameters` statement declares the correct [scalar data type](../../query/scalar-data-types/index.md).

For an example, see [Use query parameters to protect user input](../get-started/app-basic-query.md#use-query-parameters-to-protect-user-input).

## Named properties

The `ClientRequestProperties` class includes named properties that are valuable for debugging and tracing purposes. The following sections explain these named properties.

### Client request ID

The `ClientRequestId`, or `client_request_id`, property is an ID used to identify the request. The property translates into the HTTP header `x-ms-client-request-id`.

Clients should specify a unique value for this property with each request they send. This specification is helpful for debugging and may be required for specific scenarios like query cancellation. We recommend using the format *ClientApplicationName*`.`*ActivityType*`;`*UniqueId*.

If the client doesn't specify a value for this property, a random value is assigned.

> [!CAUTION]
> The client request ID is recorded for diagnostics. Avoid sending sensitive data like personally identifiable or confidential information.

### Application

The `Application` property holds the name of the client application that makes the request and is used for tracing. The property translates into the HTTP header `x-ms-app`. To specify the property in a [Kusto connection string](../connection-strings/kusto.md), use the `Application Name for Tracing` property.

If the client doesn't specify a value for this property, the property is automatically set to the name of the process hosting the Kusto Data library.

### User

The `User` property holds the identity of the user that makes the request and is used for tracing. The property translates into the HTTP header `x-ms-user`. To specify the property in a [Kusto connection string](../connection-strings/kusto.md), use the `User Name for Tracing` property.

## Related content

* [Create an app to run basic queries](../get-started/app-basic-query.md)
* [Query/management HTTP request](../rest/request.md)
